Ser Jaime Lannister is the eldest son of Tywin, younger twin brother of Cersei, and older brother of Tyrion Lannister. He was involved in an incestuous relationship with Cersei, and unknown to most, he is the biological father of her three children, Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen.

Jaime previously served in the Kingsguard of Aerys Targaryen, known as the Mad King, before infamously backstabbing him during the Sack of King's Landing, earning Jaime the nickname of the Kingslayer. He continued to serve in the Kingsguard of Robert Baratheon, and as Lord Commander for Robert's alleged sons Joffrey and Tommen. However, a confrontation with the Faith of the Seven led to his dismissal from the sworn order.

With Cersei's ascension to the Iron Throne and in light of the death of their uncle, Ser Kevan Lannister, Jaime was appointed as the new commander of the Lannister armies. However, he left his position to honor and help the North face the White Walkers after he learned that Cersei and Euron Greyjoy plot to dishonor the truce between the Iron Throne and the alliance of House Targaryen and House Stark.

Jaime is the eldest son of Joanna Lannister and Lord Tywin Lannister. Tywin is the head of House Lannister, the richest man in Westeros and the most powerful man in the world, and Lord Paramount of the Westerlands. The Westerlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Lannister is one of the Great Houses of the realm. Jaime had great difficulty learning to read as a child because he transposed letters in his mind. Tywin sat with him through four hours a day practicing until he learned. Jaime resented being forced to spend so much time on reading.[1]

Jaime is the older brother of Tyrion and the twin brother of Cersei. Their mother died giving birth to Tyrion. Due to his place in the Kingsguard, Jaime cannot inherit his father's lands or titles, making Tyrion his father's heir; a fact which vexes Tywin. Unlike Cersei and Tywin, Jaime always treated Tyrion with a degree of love, kindness and respect.

The Mad King, Aerys II, proclaims Jaime to his Kingsguard.
Jaime began an incestuous relationship with his twin Cersei in his youth. At the age of 16, Jaime rose to the rank of knighthood. At the behest of Cersei, he consented to join the Kingsguard so that the two of them could be together in King's Landing. However, Tywin erupted in fury and resigned his position as Hand of the King, taking Cersei back to Casterly Rock with him. Jaime was appointed to the position by the Mad King, Aerys II Targaryen during the Tourney at Harrenhal.[2] He was then the youngest man ever appointed to its membership.[3]

At the conclusion of Robert's Rebellion, Jaime's father Tywin arrived at the gates of King's Landing with the main Lannister army, pledging his allegiance. Most of the Small Council urged Aerys not to trust Tywin, especially Jaime, knowing his father would never support the losing side of a war. Instead, Grand Maester Pycelle gave the opposite counsel, and once the Lannister army was allowed inside, Tywin ordered his men to attack the city. As Lannister soldiers raped and pillaged throughout the city during the Sack of King's Landing, King Aerys remained holed up inside the Red Keep, for hours maniacally repeating the order to "burn them all". 

Jaime slays the Mad King.
Despite being sworn by the holiest oaths to protect the king as a member of the Kingsguard, Jaime ultimately turned his own sword on Aerys, slaying him at the foot of the Iron Throne itself. For this infamous act, he is known throughout the Seven Kingdoms as the "Kingslayer", to his irritation.

He was forgiven for breaking his vows by King Robert Baratheon and permitted to remain in the Kingsguard as part of Robert's alliance with House Lannister, along with the marriage of Jaime's twin sister Cersei to Robert. In addition to the slaying of the Mad King, Jaime is known for his handsome looks, arrogant demeanor, and his superior and incredible fighting skills, and for his superb martial skills.[5] He is so skilled and great with a sword that he claims that there are only three men in the seven kingdoms who may have a chance at beating him in a fair duel.

In King's Landing, Jaime counsels his sister, Cersei, over fears that Jon Arryn may have discovered their secret prior to his death. Jaime argues that even if he knew, Arryn did not inform the king, for if he had, they would already be dead. If Arryn knew, his knowledge died with him. He accompanies King Robert to Winterfell where the king plans to ask Eddard Stark to replace Jon Arryn as Hand of the King. After their arrival, Cersei sends Jaime to find their younger brother Tyrion. Jaime tracks Tyrion to a brothel, tells him that he is needed at the feast that night and brings him several whores to speed his exit.[6]

Jaime confronts Bran, before pushing him out a window.
At the evening feast, Jaime blocks Eddard's path and asks if there will be a possibility of their competing against each other at a tournament. Eddard dismissively says no, as he doesn't play at fighting, and doesn't show off his skills to let opponents know his abilities. The next day, Eddard and Robert go hunting, leaving the castle largely empty. Cersei and Jaime liaise in a derelict tower. Bran Stark climbs the tower, looks through a window and finds them engaged in sexual intercourse. He is caught watching by Cersei, at that point Jaime is able to make it to the window to grab him. Bran is startled by everything he's seen, Jaime looks out the window and only sees Bran's direwolf pup Summer. He asks Bran how old he is, and he replies, "Ten." Jaime glances momentarily back at Cersei and says, "The things I do for love", and pushes Bran out of the window.[6]

Tyrion ponders the circumstances of Bran's fall with an uneasy Jaime and Cersei.
Several days later at breakfast, Tyrion tells his family that Bran is expected to live and notes his siblings' guarded reactions to the news. Tyrion informs them of his decision to journey north to see the Wall before returning to King'S Landing. Jaime states that it would be kinder to let him die, due to Bran's paraplegia, but Tyrion states he would prefer to live in any case. Jaime then hints that it would be in House Lannister's best interests if Bran were to die. 

Jaime sarcastically shakes hand with Jon.
Jaime comforts Cersei.
Jaime stands alongside Ser Barristan.
Jaime guards the king's bedroom while Robert cavorts with several women, Jaime taking it as a calculated insult to himself and his sister. He reminisces with Jory Cassel, the captain of Eddard's household guards, about the Siege of Pyke during the Greyjoy Rebellion and the fierceness of the fighting.[9]

Jaime confronts Eddard Stark in King's Landing.
Upon hearing of his brother's capture by Catelyn Stark, he confronts Eddard in the streets of King's Landing. Knowing that killing Eddard will result in Tyrion's death, he instead has Eddard's guards executed, stabbing Jory through the eye himself. He and Eddard fiercely cross swords in an intense duel, and Jaime is surprised that Eddard is a match for him. After minutes of dueling, and neither opponent gaining ground on the other, the fight ends abruptly and prematurely when a Lannister guardsmen stabs Eddard through the leg. An irritated Jaime knocks out the guardsman and then departs the city, telling Eddard that he wants his brother back.[10]

Jaime discusses legacy with his father.
He gives Jaime thirty-thousand men and sends him to besiege Riverrun. In King's Landing, Eddard tells Cersei that he knows that Jaime is the true father of Cersei's three children. She admits it, saying they have loved one another from the womb and are destined to be together always.[11]

Jaime is captured by Robb's army.
Catelyn Stark visits the captive Jaime. He taunts Catelyn, saying widowhood suits her, informing her that he would have sex with her if she was lonely. She hits him in the head with a rock. Jaime knows that the Starks won't kill him as long as his sister holds Sansa and Arya hostage, but Jaime Lannister always taunts others while he is in chains to show them he doesn't fear them and they aren't superior to him. She says he has gone against the laws of gods and man, he says, "What Gods?" Where were her gods when her husband was killed. When she says injustice in the world is because of men like him, he tells her, "There are no men like me. Only me." When asked directly, he admits pushing Bran from the tower, but doesn't reveal why.[14]

Jaime and Grey Wind face to face.
Jaime remains a captive of House Stark. King Robb Stark keeps Jaime caged and chained to a post in his camp at all times to prevent Lord Tywin bribing or threatening one of his bannermen into giving him up. Jaime remains defiant, taunting and insulting Robb when he comes to confront him. King Stannis Baratheon has made Joffrey's parentage public, by sending letters to all the lords throughout the kingdom, exposing Jaime's incest with Cersei. Jaime counters that Stannis has a personal stake in these accusations, as if all of Cersei's children are Jaime's bastards that means Stannis is heir to the throne. However it is Jaime who is intimidated when Robb threatens him with his snarling direwolf Grey Wind.[15]

Jaime talking to Lady Stark.
Jaime is soon recaptured. Lord Rickard Karstark demands Jaime's head for killing his son. Catelyn Stark convinces Rickard to wait until Robb returns but fears that his patience will not hold. Catelyn visits Jaime's cell with her female guard Brienne. She accuses Jaime of being a man without honor because of his broken vows. Jaime explains his view that his vows frequently conflicted with one another. He asserts that he has more honor than some; he reveals that Cersei is the only one he has slept with and reminds Catelyn how her husband Eddard Stark cheated on her and fathered Jon Snow.[16] Catelyn makes a deal with Jaime and releases him. She tasks Brienne of Tarth with escorting him to King's Landing to exchange him for her captive daughters.[17]

Jaime and Brienne escaping on their way to King's Landing.
Brienne successfully smuggles him out of the camp on horseback and then they travel by rowboat to evade pursuit. Jaime needles her about her appearance and masculinity, unsuccessfully attempting to goad her into dueling him.[17] 

Jaime recognized by Stark men.
He changes subject, focusing on her virginity and childhood. They find a trio of women, hanged for sleeping with Lannister soldiers. He mocks her service to House Stark and she asserts that she serves Lady Catelyn specifically. As Brienne goes to bury the bodies they are accosted by a trio of Stark soldiers. Brienne kills all three after they recognize Jaime, and he is impressed by her skill. He questions her readiness to kill Stark men and she reasserts her dedication to Catelyn and the task she set her.[18]

Brienne beats Jaime down.
Jaime's swordhand is severed by Locke.
Jaime lays helpless in the mud,
The following day, Locke's men lead their prisoners Jaime and Brienne of Tarth on horseback. Jaime's severed right hand is tied onto a rope that hangs around his neck. Jaime is physically in agony from his wound, feverish and half-delirious. Jaime can barely stay conscious, and he falls headlong off of his horse into the mud. Laying in the mud Jaime is mocked and tormented by Locke and his men, giving him horse urine to drink. However Jaime manages to steal a sword, and unsuccessfully tries to fight them off using only his left hand. Jaime is so weak and feverish that he can barely stand, much less wield a sword and must therefore quickly give up trying. His only hope is that one of the men would give him a small dignified death having a sword in his hand. He eventually succumbs to exhaustion and Locke simply warns him that if he tries that again he'll cut off his other hand.
Later that night Jaime and Brienne are restrained near a campfire. Jaime refuses to eat, and says he wants to die. Brienne says he should try to live for revenge, but Jaime says he was that hand, and without his sword-hand, even if he escapes, he is nothing, and would rather die as the Jaime he was than go on living, robbed of his very identity. Brienne says she overheard when he earlier managed to talk Locke out of letting his men gang-rape her. Brienne is confused, and asks Jaime why he helped her, but he doesn't answer. Brienne grows angry, claiming that this is the first time Jaime had to face the real world where things people care about get taken away. And that he's pathetically moping around like a woman. Her criticism and strength convinces Jaime to start eating.[21]

The party eventually arrives at Harrenhal, where Roose Bolton is visibly angered at Locke for maiming Jaime. Jaime asks Bolton about Cersei, and Bolton briefly tortures him emotionally, describing Stannis Baratheon's attack on King's Landing in a way that seems as if he will say Cersei was killed, but he informs him that Tywin and the Tyrell army arrived to drive Stannis away, and Cersei is alive and well. Jaime is so relieved that he falls to his knees. His stump is later tended to by Qyburn, an ex-maester who was expelled from the Order for his unethical but successful experiments. Qyburn implies that he may need to cut off Jaime's arm to stop the corruption spreading, but Jaime threatens to kill him if he does, so Qyburn agrees to only cut away the rotting flesh, and offers Jaime milk of the poppy to ease the pain, but Jaime, fearing that Qyburn will sedate him and still amputate his arm, refuses, and screams in agony as Qyburn starts operating on him.

Jaime recounts the story of slaying the Mad King.
Jaime in discussions with Roose Bolton.
While sitting at the dinner table with Brienne and Roose Bolton, Jaime relentlessly tries to cut his meat with one hand. Roose tells Jaime that wars cost money and that many people would pay a great deal of money for him. After discussing how busy Tywin is, Jaime informs Roose that his father would make time for him. Roose tells Jaime, that when he is well enough to travel, he will allow him to return to King's Landing on the condition that he will tell Tywin the truth, that he had nothing to do with his maiming. 
Roose does not allow Brienne to join Jaime however, claiming she is charged with abetting treason. Before Roose heads off to the Twins, Jaime jokingly tells him to send his regards to Robb Stark, a task that Roose actually does carry out right before killing the Young Wolf.[22]

Jaime leaves Harrenhal and begins his journey back to King's Landing.
Jaime arrives in Brienne's chambers to tell her goodbye before he leaves for King's Landing. He informs her that Roose Bolton has demanded she stay behind with Locke. He tells Brienne that he owes her a debt. Brienne tells Jaime that if he keeps his word to Catelyn Stark the debt will be paid. Jaime promises that he will return the Stark girls to their mother.

Jaime returns to Cersei in the Red Keep.
Jaime walks into the gates of King's Landing with Brienne and Qyburn. A worker pulling a cart orders that he move out of the way, calling him a "Country Boy". Jaime immediately returns to Cersei back at the Red Keep. He steps into her room and notices her admiring a seashell fondly. He says her name and as she turns, he notices she is taken aback by his stump.[25]

Jaime wields a newly fresh-forged Valyrian steel sword with his left hand.
Qyburn fits Jaime's steel hand.
Jaime and Brienne discuss Sansa's safety.
Jaime talks with his brother.
Jaime attends Joffrey's funeral.
Jaime enters to Great Sept of Baelor to see Cersei and his dead son. Jaime sends the septon and septas away so he can be alone with Cersei. Cersei wants the death of the accused Tyrion and his wife, Sansa Stark. She asks Jaime to kill Tyrion for murdering their son because she is sure Tyrion will talk his way out of it. Jaime refuses and tries to comfort her through his affections. Cersei initially kisses Jaime then pulls away and turns back to her dead son after which Jaime proclaims "You're a hateful woman, why have the gods condemned me to love a hateful woman?" Jaime then becomes aggressive, tearing at her dress. Cersei insists his actions are inappropriate and repeatedly asks Jaime to stop, but he refuses. They embrace and proceed to have rough, angry sex on the floor in front of Joffrey's corpse.[28]

Bronn training Jaime to fight with his left hand.
Jaime discusses Sansa with Cersei.
Jaime tells Tyrion of his and Tywin's plan to let him join the Night's Watch.
Jaime angry at Tyrion after the failed plan to get him join the Night's Watch.
Jaime visits Tyrion before his trial by combat.
On the day of the trial by combat, Jaime visits Tyrion in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Lannister and his habit to smash beetles with rocks for no reason. Tyrion says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Jaime says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Tyrion good luck. Shortly after, he seats himself next to Tywin, Mace Tyrell, Cersei, Pycelle and Varys in the royal box to watch the duel. 
He exchanges a few supportive and cheerful looks with Tyrion when Oberyn seems to be winning, but is very unhappy at the result of the trial by combat, which condemns his brother to death - Ser Gregor Clegane crushing Oberyn's skull with his bare hands.[33]

Jaime and Cersei make love after Cersei tells Tywin of their relationship.
Jaime rescues Tyrion.
Cersei chastises Jaime in the Great Sept.
During the funeral of his father, Tywin Lannister, Jaime meets with Cersei in the Great Sept of Baelor. Jaime warns his sister that all the power and prestige their father built for House Lannister belongs to them now and that, once everyone sees that Tywin is truly dead, their enemies will do everything they can to take it away from them. Cersei bluntly states that their true enemy is Tyrion and that Jaime is partly responsible for Tywin's death since he was the one who released their father's murderer. He is left alone in the Sept, looking at his father's corpse and feeling guilty.[35]

Cersei shows Jaime the "gift" from Dorne.
Jaime is summoned by Cersei, who has received a "gift" from Dorne: an ornately carved viper, with Princess Myrcella's unique Lannister pendant suspended from its fangs. Both siblings understand the gift as a threat from House Martell. Even though she is equally to blame for covering up their incest, Cersei lashes out at Jaime for not being a father to any of their children, to which he points out that if he had been, their children would be stoned in the streets. Jaime declares that he will bring Myrcella home, but Cersei mockingly asks how can a one-handed man rescue a princess alone. Jaime tells her that he never said he was going alone.

Later, Jaime goes to Castle Stokeworth in order to recruit Ser Bronn of the Blackwater on his mission to return Myrcella to King's Landing. To convince him to go, Jaime reveals that Cersei has arranged for Willas Bracken to marry Lollys Stokeworth instead of Bronn, and offers him a much better girl than Lollys and a much better castle once they return from Dorne.[36]

During the journey to Dorne, Bronn pushes Jaime for answers as to why he is rescuing Myrcella personally instead of sending an army. Jaime responds that he does not want to start a war, but Bronn insinuates that he knows Myrcella is actually Jaime's daughter and not his niece. He also warns Jaime on the impulsiveness of the Dornish people, and asks if Jaime set Tyrion free. Jaime claims it was Varys. Bronn asks Jaime to give Tyrion his regards should he see him again, but Jaime responds by saying that if he ever sees Tyrion again, he will kill him in revenge for their father.

Jaime uses his metal hand to stop a blade.
Not long after, Jaime and Bronn arrive in Dorne, where Bronn narrowly saves Jaime from being poisoned by a viper. As they make their way towards Dorne, they are discovered by Dornish soldiers and a fight ensues. Jaime personally duels one of the soldiers and holds his own with his left hand until he is disarmed. The man moves in to kill Jaime, who catches the blade in his metal hand and uses the distraction to get his sword and finish his opponent. Over Bronn's protests, Jaime insists that they bury the soldiers in order to avoid suspicions. Unbeknownst to either, Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes are aware that Jaime is coming for Myrcella.[37]

Jaime is threatened by the point of Areo Hotah's longaxe.
Jaime and Bronn, disguised as Dornish soldiers, finally reach the Water Gardens and find Myrcella with Trystane Martell. Myrcella is understandably surprised to see her alleged uncle in Dorne, but as Jaime attempts to persuade his daughter to flee with him, they are attacked by the Sand Snakes, who plan to kill Myrcella in order to force Doran Martell into war with the Lannisters for Oberyn Martell's death. Jaime and Bronn fight with the Sand Snakes, with Jaime focused on Obara Sand, until Doran's bodyguard, Areo Hotah appears with a handful of Martell guards and orders them to stand down. Jaime is briefly mocked by Areo for his missing hand before he drops his weapon, and he, Bronn, the Sand Snakes and Ellaria Sand are all arrested.[38]

Myrcella and Jaime talk about Trystane.
Jaime is locked up in a bedroom-like cell. Areo brings Myrcella to visit him. Jaime tells her that the situation has grown dangerous and he needs to take Myrcella back to King's Landing, though he fails to mention that it is because the Dornishmen seek to use her as a way to gain revenge for Oberyn. She soundly rejects his advice and claims she wants to stay in Dorne and marry Trystane before leaving him alone.[39]

Later, Jaime is escorted into the main apartments of the Water Gardens by Areo Hotah, to be received by Prince Doran Martell in his solar, along with Ellaria Sand, Doran's son Trystane Martell, and Jaime's "niece" Myrcella Baratheon. Doran asks Jaime why he has snuck into Dorne to abduct Myrcella back to King's Landing.

Jaime is received in Prince Doran Martell's solar.
He says he feared for her safety, but when Doran insists as to why he didn't just send a letter by messenger raven, he explains that they received a threatening message: Myrcella's Lannister lion pendant jammed in the mouth of dead viper. Jaime asks if Doran intends to behead him, but he says that he will not, because he wishes to avoid war. Doran insists that for the alliance between the Iron Throne and Dorne to continue, the engagement of Trystane and Myrcella must stand, and Trystane will simply take his uncle Oberyn's place on the Small Council. Jaime finds Doran's request entirely reasonable, and Myrcella is ecstatic that she will not be separated from Trystane, so Jaime agrees.[40] 

Jaime embraces Myrcella as his daughter moments before her unexpected death.
Jaime, Bronn, Myrcella and Trystane say their farewells to the Martells to return to King's Landing. Upon saying goodbye, Ellaria Sand kisses Myrcella on the lips. Aboard the ship, Myrcella and Jaime talk about Cersei. Jaime begins to come clean to Myrcella, awkwardly telling her that one cannot choose who he/she love. Myrcella then reveals that she knows that Jaime is her real father, and that she is glad that he is, and the two embrace. However, Myrcella's nose starts to bleed and she collapses and dies in Jaime's arms.[41] 

Jaime brings Myrcella's corpse to King's Landing.
Jaime returns from Dorne with Myrcella's corpse. He then comforts Cersei in her quarters and the conversation shifts to the death of their mother. Cersei then tells Jaime about the prophecy that Maggy told her as a child concerning the deaths of her children. Jaime brushes this off, insisting that they are the only two who have ever mattered and promising they will take back everything that has been stolen from them. Aware that Doran Martell had nothing to do with Myrcella's murder, Jaime sends Doran a letter demanding the heads of Ellaria and the three Sand Snakes responsible, which leads to the deaths of Doran and Trystane at Ellaria's hands.[42] 

Jaime confronts the High Sparrow during Myrcella's funeral.
Jaime and Tommen later mourn Myrcella in the Sept of Baelor. Jaime informs Tommen they haven't found Trystane's killers, though Tommen suspects Cersei was involved. When Jaime asks why he has not allowed his mother to pay respects, Tommen informs Jaime that the High Sparrow has forbidden Cersei from entering the Sept. Jaime reassures Tommen that he will not let the Sparrows imprison her again while he is in the city and asks Tommen why has he not visited his mother yet. As Tommen questions his ability to rule and protect his family, the High Sparrow arrives and Jaime orders Tommen to go see his mother. Jaime is furious at what the High Sparrow has done to Cersei and considers killing him on the spot but backs down when the fanatics surround him.[43]

Jaime and Cersei later visit Qyburn's lab accompanied by Gregor Clegane. As Cersei asks Qyburn to sway more of Varys' spies to her cause, Jaime wonders aloud on the ex-maester's treatment of Clegane, causing the Mountain to glare at him in anger.

Jaime and Cersei try to intervene on the Small Council.
After meeting Qyburn, Jaime, Cersei and Gregor interrupt a Small Council meeting to demand a discussion on what to do about the Sparrows and Ellaria Sand's coup in Dorne. Kevan and Olenna remind Cersei of her place, but Jaime, being Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, asserts he can stay. Instead, Kevan and the Council refuse to continue to meet while Gregor Clegane is present and promptly leave the council chamber.[44]

Later, after Cersei learns from Tommen that the High Sparrow means to have Margaery perform a Walk of Attonement, she and Jaime try to appeal to the Council again. This time, they agree to work together to remove the High Sparrow from power. Jaime convinces his uncle to keep the Lannister forces in reserve but have the Tyrell army go to the Great Sept of Baelor and free Margaery and Loras, though Kevan warns that the High Sparrow has many supporters and thousands could die in the ensuing civil war.[45]

Jaime arrives with a Tyrell army in an attempt to free Ser Loras and Queen Margaery from the Sparrows.
Jaime meets Mace Tyrell and his army by the city gate and rides with the Lord of Highgarden to the Great Sept. As the High Sparrow is addressing the crowd, the Tyrell force marches into the square at the foot of the Sept's stairs. Just as it seems it will come to blood, the High Sparrow announces he will be releasing Margaery due to a new alliance between the Crown and the Faith, and Tommen emerges from the Sept with the rest of the Kingsguard. Jaime is shocked and enraged, and he gives the High Sparrow a scornful glare.

After the failed attempt at the Great Sept, Tommen removes Jaime from the Kingsguard. He commands him to take an army to Riverrun, which was recently captured by the Blackfish and the Tully army, and help the Freys retake the castle. Jaime later informs Cersei of this, angry that the High Sparrow has swayed Tommen to his side and threatening to attack the Sept with help from Bronn and other sellswords. Instead, Cersei advises Jaime to lead the Lannister forces to Riverrun, confident the Mountain will win her trial by combat. She kisses Jaime goodbye, reminding him their enemies have always underestimated them.[46]

Jaime reinforces House Frey's forces at the Siege of Riverrun.
Jaime arrives at Riverrun accompanied by Bronn and an army of 8,000 Lannisters. He witnesses Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers threatening to kill Edmure Tully if the Blackfish doesn't surrender. Knowing his nephew is too valuable to lose, the Blackfish dismisses them and Edmure is spared. 

Jaime remarks on the Freys' poor attempts at siege warfare and points out that threatening to hang Edmure and then not doing so makes them look weak. To prove his point, he threatens to strike Black Walder if he speaks again; when Black Walder begins to answer, Jaime slaps him hard with his armored hand, drawing blood. Jaime assumes command of the siege and orders Edmure to be washed and fed. Jaime then sends word to Brynden that he wishes to parley. He comes face to face with Brynden, but it quickly becomes clear that the Blackfish is not interested in surrendering. He asks Jaime whether he has come to honor his vow to his niece and return her two daughters. Brynden quips that "negotiating with an oathbreaker is like building on quicksand", declaring that he is ready to die in his home. He challenges Jaime to either storm the castle or try to starve them out, claiming that they have two years worth of provisions. Brynden then asks Jaime, "Do you have two years?"[47]

Brienne offers Oathkeeper to Jaime.
A few days into the siege, Jaime is reunited with Brienne, who has arrived at Riverrun to seek an alliance with House Tully for Sansa Stark to fight the Boltons. Brienne tells him that she fulfilled their oath to Catelyn Stark and explains Sansa's desire for aid from the Blackfish. She proposes that if she can convince the Blackfish to surrender the castle, then Jaime will allow him and the Tully army safe passage to the North. Jaime agrees and allows Brienne to enter Riverrun and try to convince Brynden to surrender. She then removes Oathkeeper and tries to return it to Jaime, since the purpose he lent it to her for (rescuing Sansa) has been fulfilled, but he refuses to take it back, saying that it's hers now. Brienne reminds him that her oath to Sansa Stark will obligate her to fight him if her efforts to find a peaceful solution should fail if he attacks the castle.

Jaime threatens Edmure.
Jaime convinces Edmure Tully to surrender Riverrun without casualty.
Despite Brynden's protests, the gates are opened to Edmure and Riverrun surrenders without a fight. On the castle walls, Jaime is informed of the Blackfish's death, leaving him visibly saddened. He then witnesses Brienne and Podrick escaping in a boat, but allows them to leave, waving goodbye to Brienne.[48]

Jaime during the feast at the Twins.
Jaime then marches to the Twins with the Freys as they celebrate their retaking of Riverrun. Jaime notices a serving girl who smiles at him. Bronn then complains that all the women desire Jaime, who then calls over two young girls and introduces them to the knight. He then speaks to Walder Frey, who gloats about their victory. When Walder attempts to equate himself with Jaime, calling them both kingslayers, Jaime is visibly irritated. Walder goes on to say that fear is a marvelous thing but Jaime retorts that people fear the Lannisters, not the Freys, and questions the need for the Freys if the Lannisters have to keep helping the Freys hold the Riverlands. Walder does not respond and Jaime brusquely leaves. Walder and his sons, Black Walder and Lothar, are later murdered by the same serving girl that smiled at Jaime earlier, who reveals herself to be Arya Stark. 

Jaime watches as Cersei is crowned Queen, knowing what she did to obtain it.
Jaime stands with Cersei during her audience with Euron Greyjoy.
Jaime persuades Randyll of Olenna's dishonour.
Jaime is present when Cersei convenes a court of Reachmen, including Randyll Tarly, who are asked to betray their oaths to Olenna Tyrell, who has recently joined forces with Daenerys. Jaime then manages to get Randyll on his own, after a brief confusion of names with his son, Dickon Tarly, who is mistaken as "Rickard" to Jaime. He then makes it clear that Randyll is the most prominent of the lords of the Reach, and that the others will look to him when choosing sides. Despite Jaime mentioning the possibility of the Dothraki invading his lands, Randyll still announces that he doesn't wish to be dishonourable to Olenna. Jaime then promises to give him the title of Warden of the South, should they succeed in triumphing over Daenerys.[51]

Jaime and Euron converse over Cersei.
Jaime is present when Euron Greyjoy presents his captives of Yara Greyjoy and Ellaria and Tyene Sand as his promised gift to Cersei. As they stand beside the throne as Cersei proclaims Euron commander of her naval forces as well as assuring him of her hand in marriage once the war is won, Jaime quietly mutters that the same people who cheered for Euron would do the same if Cersei put his head on a spike. Euron ignores the jab, but responds with one of his own by asking Jaime for advice on how Cersei enjoys sex. A furious Jaime almost lunges at Euron, but Euron, delighted at having provoked him, gleefully tells Jaime to save it for later, in a not so public place.

Soon after, Jaime is seen dining in his chambers when Cersei enters the room, and proceeds to disrobe him. They have sex, and then the next morning, they are woken by a servant ringing the doorbell. Jaime urges Cersei to ignore it, and expresses shock when she decides to answer the door, as nobody should see him sleeping in Cersei's bed, but Cersei retorts that she is the Queen and can do whatever she wants. When Cersei opens the door, the servant tells her that the Iron Bank of Braavos is ready to meet with her, and her eyes catch on to the sight of Jaime in Cersei's bed, before quickly walking away. Cersei smiles as Jaime's concern turns to amusement.  

Jaime prepares to sack Highgarden.
Jaime is next seen leading the combined Lannister-Tarly army, along with Bronn, Randyll and Dickon Tarly in the final assault against Highgarden. In the aftermath of the assault and the massacre of the castle's Tyrell garrison, passing through his own soldiers counting up the spoils of victory, Jaime confronts Olenna Tyrell in her study. Jaime notes that the Tyrell forces fought bravely, whereupon Olenna acknowledges warfare was not House Tyrell's strong point. Olenna observes that Tyrion and Daenerys thought the bulk of the Lannister forces would be defending Casterly Rock against the Unsullied attack. Jaime, while pouring two glasses of wine, reveals it was a ruse, explaining that his ancestral home is now practically worthless, aside from childhood sentiment; a token garrison was left behind and the Rock's food stores were emptied before they fled. He also states Euron's Iron Fleet will have destroyed the attacking fleet, leaving the Unsullied trapped deep in Westeros at the mercy of Lannister forces. Meanwhile, the main Lannister army would be far away from the main attack, a strategic move Jaime learnt from Robb Stark's attack at the Whispering Wood. Olenna wonders why Tywin Lannister didn't just take Highgarden when Casterly Rock's mines first ran out of gold. Knowing her end is near, she remarks that she may ask Tywin himself soon enough.

Olenna asks Jaime how he intends to kill her, speculating he will kill her with Widow's Wail; Joffrey Baratheon's old sword. Remarking on Joffrey's horrible nature, Olenna proudly admits that she enacted measures to protect her family at all costs, with no regrets, but reflects that her actions pale in comparison to the atrocities performed by Cersei. She tells Jaime that Cersei is a monster; a matter of opinion according to Jaime. While some may dread her, Jaime insists that none will care what she has done, so long as order is restored. Olenna observes that Jaime really does love his sister, and calls him a fool, claiming that she will be the end of him, and that by the time he realizes what a disease Cersei is, it will be far too late for him. Jaime considers this a moot point, of little value discussing with Olenna, although she points out that as an experienced person about to die, she is the perfect person to discuss his life with.

Olenna tells Jaime of her role in Joffrey's murder.
Jaime seizes the Tyrell gold.
Later, Jaime coordinates the soldiers loading up the spoils of war for transport after the sack of Highgarden allowed them to seize all of House Tyrell's substantial gold stores, which they send ahead to King's Landing first, before moving on to securing grain shipments. Jaime procures a large bag of gold coins and gives it to Bronn as payment for his services. Bronn, however, is annoyed that this isn't the full reward he was promised, which included a wife from the nobility and a castle. He then half-seriously asks why Jaime doesn't just grant him Highgarden, as they need someone to rule it. Jaime waves this aside by saying they don't actually intend to hold Highgarden for long as it would be difficult for Bronn of all people to rule over hostile territory, and the war isn't over yet, so at this point he thinks Bronn should be satisfied with a more movable big sack of gold than a castle he'll have trouble defending. Bronn, however, is not amused.

Some time later, Jaime's Lannister army has advanced much farther east along the Goldroad, in the northeast of the Reach. Lord Randyll Tarly comes to Jaime and says they should hurry to get all of their grain wagons over the Blackwater Rush to King's Landing on the northern side, as they will be vulnerable if their formation is caught on both sides of the river. Jaime agrees, but Randyll suggests flogging the stragglers to motivate them. Jaime urges that his soldiers fought well at Highgarden, however, and he should at least give them a fair warning first instead of launching right into the flogging. Jaime and Bronn then encounter Randyll's son Dickon Tarly again. Jaime asks what he thought of his first taste of battle, and he nervously claims it was glorious - only to then dejectedly admit that he was quite conflicted: House Tarly had been loyal vassals of the Tyrells for generations; he knew many of the men they killed, even hunted side by side with them. Jaime earnestly advises the young man that the guilt is not his but Olenna Tyrell's as she was the one who chose to side with Daenerys's foreign army against Queen Cersei, so it is truly Olenna's fault they died and the fact that Dickon wasn't involved with the decision making process on either side means he shouldn't dwell on it. Dickon then outright confesses that the aftermath was horrible, notably the smell of all the fresh corpses. Bronn playfully taunts that Dickon, a sheltered nobleman, finally found out that men void their bowels when they die.

Jaime and Bronn spot the Dothraki horde.
Upon reaching the Goldroad by the Blackwater river, Jaime and Bronn are surprised to hear what sounds like distant thunder, until they realize it must be approaching cavalry. Jaime and Randyll shout for their soldiers to form up, which they manage to do before the enemy crests over the horizon - a massive, 100,000 strong horde of Dothraki cavalry. Bronn insists that Jaime should just leave and ride ahead to King's Landing, but Jaime insists he will not abandon his men. Bronn bluntly tells him the Dothraki will swamp the Lannister lines and Jaime is too valuable as a commander to stay and fight, but Jaime insists that they have a chance if they hold.

Jaime spots Daenerys Targaryen and her dragon Drogon.
At that moment, they hear a roar not heard on the battlefields of Westeros in over a century and a half, and look above the Dothraki horde to see a huge adult dragon heading straight for their lines - Drogon, ridden by Daenerys Targaryen herself. Drogon outpaces the Dothraki, and at Daenerys's command "Dracarys!", he blasts a torrent of fire through the Lannister ranks in a straight line from front to back, punching a hole in their formation. The highly mobile Dothraki light cavalry immediately sweep through it and wheel around to catch those parts of the Lannister lines in an envelopment.

The Lannister-Tarly lines around Jaime and Randyll manage to rally under their leadership, however: the Dothraki charge into the Lannister lines head-on, but meet stiff resistance as their spear wall holds firm. Though they are outnumbered, the Lannister soldiers are better armed heavy infantry, highly disciplined and battle-hardened veterans from years of war. Dothraki horse-archers let off shots before charging into their ranks, but highly trained Tarly archers return fire, doing as much if not more damage as the Dothraki wear less armor.

Jaime witnesses Drogon in action.
The Lannister army gives as good as it takes for a time, but their enemy has the advantage of weight in numbers, and the tide turns slowly against them. For a moment it looks like Jaime might at least be able to force the Dothraki to a standstill - but then Daenerys wheels out of the air again, devastating the Lannister formations. No longer trying to punch verticle holes through their lines, she switches to flanking the Lannister ranks, burning a vast horizontal swath of men from left to right. Men are flash-burned into nothing but ash which crumbles upon the touch. Men are cooked alive in their own superheated armor as they struggled to rip it off.

Jaime rallies the Tarly forces.
Nonetheless, Jaime manages to rally his remaining forces a second time, desperately taking command of a group of surviving Lannister and Tarly archers and directing them to concentrate their fire at the dragon: Drogon might not be vulnerable to common arrow fire, but his rider is. If they can manage to kill Daenerys herself, who has risked appearing in open battle, the entire war could end in a day, no matter their losses. Daenerys sees the attack coming, however, and banks Drogon up so the arrow volley harmlessly bounces off the armored scales on his belly. He then blasts the archer formations with fire. Jaime avoids the flames and is surrounded by enemies, but he manages to carve a path through the Dothraki with his Valyrian steel sword Widow's Wail to try to reach safety. He nearly gets attacked by a Dothraki from behind at one point, but Dickon Tarly kills the Dothraki first, saving him.

Jaime watches his army burn.
Even then all is not lost - Jaime also commanded Bronn to reach Qyburn's anti-dragon scorpion-bolt launcher, which they took with them in the wagon train for just this scenario (as Jaime cannot fire it one-handed). Bronn spots the dragon in the distance, and fires but misses. Daenerys is startled by the scorpion-bolt flying a few feet from her head, scans the battlefield, and spots Bronn on the scorpion as he reloads. Bronn eventually manages to shoot Drogon in the shoulder, but the scorpion is destroyed immediately after by Drogon's dragonfire. To Jaime's disadvantage, the dragon's armored scales are so tough that the scorpion bolt only managed to cause superficial damage. Nonetheless the flesh wound grounds him, and he howls in pain and fury, destroying any masses of enemy soldiers that get near him. Daenerys sets him down and dismounts to try and pull the scorpion bolt out.

Jaime charges at Daenerys.
Jaime, however, sees that Daenerys is grounded and immobilized, and realizes he still has one chance; if he can kill Daenerys, even now, he can end her invasion. Jaime grabs a spear and charges his horse across the flaming battlefield to make a death-run for Daenerys as she tends to her dragon. Tyrion swears under his breath, calling his brother a "fucking idiot", angry that he's going to get himself killed. Just as Jaime is nearly on top of Daenerys, however, Drogon notices him amidst the chaos of the battle; shielding Daenerys behind his head, the dragon lets out a blast of flame, but Bronn rushes over to tackle Jaime out of the way, saving him from certain death. They both fall into the river, where Jaime is weighed down by his armor, and sinks beneath the waters, in danger of drowning.[53]

Bronn rescues Jaime from drowning in his armor.
Jaime is pulled ashore by Bronn, who rebukes him for making such a reckless gamble. Realizing there is no chance their armies can beat Daenerys Targaryen at war, especially if she makes use of all three dragons, Jaime knows he must tell Cersei the bad news, to which Bronn suggests it may be better if he jumped back into the water.

Jaime meets with Tyrion.
Later, Bronn brings Jaime to the catacombs of the Red Keep for a secret training session, but Jaime finds Tyrion waiting for him. Though genuinely upset with his brother, Jaime agrees to hear him out, and Tyrion explains that Daenerys is requesting an armistice to defeat the White Walkers, before continuing the war at hand. Upon returning to his sister's chambers, Jaime relays this information to Cersei. After Cersei seemingly agrees to the ceasefire, she informs Jaime she is now pregnant with his child.[54]

Bronn and Jaime discuss Daenerys's forces.
Jaime accompanies Cersei to the parley.
Jaime later accompanies Cersei to the parley with Queen Daenerys Targaryen and King Jon Snow at the Dragonpit. He spots Brienne of Tarth among the Northern assembly, which Cersei notices. When Euron Greyjoy attempts to derail the meeting and begins insulting Tyrion, Jaime angrily tells him to sit down. As the parley continues, proof of the Army of the Dead is shown, and Daenerys tells her story of how she saw them. Jaime asks her of the enemy numbers and he is shocked when she tells him of their overwhelming numerical superiority at around at least 100,000. When Cersei leaves the parley in outrage due to Jon's public pledge of loyalty to Daenerys, Brienne urges Jaime to convince Cersei to help. After trying and failing to do so, Jaime later wishes Tyrion luck when he arrives to do the same.

Cersei informs Cersei of her plot.
Jaime argues with Cersei after she reveals her intentions to betray the Starks and Targaryens.
As he turns to leave, Ser Gregor blocks his path, causing Jaime to wonder if Cersei is actually going to have him executed. When Jaime uses Cersei's own words to remind her that their father and all their family members are dead (Tyrion having been disinherited), she assures him there is "one more yet to come."

Jaime abandons Cersei in King's Landing to honor his pledge to the North in the Great War.
It is in this moment that Jaime finally sees Cersei for what she really is: an insane, delusional, power-hungry and narcissistic tyrant who will betray anyone in order to secure her own dominion, no matter if her own life or the whole realm is in danger (possibly seeing resemblance of the Mad King in her). Nodding to Clegane, he tells Cersei to give the order. After a moment's hesitation, she nods and Clegane draws his sword. However, since Cersei doesn't actually speak the words, a thoroughly disgusted Jaime calls her bluff. He storms out, leaving a saddened Cersei behind him. He abandons his Lannister armor for simpler garb and departs King's Landing alone. On the ride north, he pulls a riding glove over his golden hand and notices that it has begun to snow, indicating that winter has finally come to King's Landing.[55]

At first glance, outsiders perceive Jaime to be arrogant, cocky, cold, dishonorable, extremely dangerous, ruthless, disdainful, and sarcastic. To a large extent he is arrogant about his own abilities, but not without cause. Even all of his enemies admit that he is unarguably one of the greatest swordsman's who has ever lived with very few men able to match him. Jaime is unquestionably one of the greatest warriors in the world, he is an extremely lethal fighter, a highly skilled warrior, and he has incredible combat skills. Jaime's loss of his sword-hand did much to humble him, given that in many ways he was that hand and how much his self-identity depended on his incredible skills with a sword and knife. Jaime is famous throughout the world for being one of the greatest warriors of all time and for being a "brilliant swordsman" which he is widely feared for. Jaime does not mock others over minor insults the way Cersei does, and he can muster up polite behavior, but he is usually very blunt and straightforward Much like his brother Tyrion, he typically just says what he is thinking, and has no reservations about mocking those he perceives as incompetent. Despite this, there were men that Jaime admired (like Ser Barristan Selmy, for whom he squired) and, underneath this cold and sarcastic attitude, Jaime is a very complicated man.

Tywin Lannister has raised Jaime and Cersei with the principle of ruthlessness as a virtue. Yet even though Jaime Lannister often behaves unapologetically amoral, in his own warped way, Jaime is the only member of the core Lannister family (Tywin and his three children) aside from Tyrion who shows any hint of honor or principles, whilst Tywin claims to see family as his highest priority but simultaneously is willing to have Tyrion, whom he views as an incalculable disgrace, killed, and Cersei herself ironically sees no immorality whatsoever in anything she does. This is largely based on his arrogance and pride at being a member of the Kingsguard. Jaime became extremely disillusioned with ideals of honor and loyalty when he saw firsthand the atrocities committed by the Mad King, how other "honorable" members of the Kingsguard stood by and did nothing while King Aerys had people burned alive for imagined insults, because they felt bound by vows of faith and fealty - in this sense, Jaime is surprisingly similar to Sandor Clegane, since they both have powerful disillusionments about honor and nobility, yet they both frequently avoid unnecessary violence.

A key difference between Cersei and Jaime is that Cersei honestly believes, in her skewed view of the world, that she is "good", Joffrey is a great king, and all of her enemies are "evil" people trying to destroy her and her children. In contrast, Jaime does not maintain any pretense of being a "good" or honorable man, as he has become apathetic to such concerns - this was influenced by him being hated and loathed by everyone because he killed a man who had infamously terrorized the Seven Kingdoms, opening his eyes to how people perceive goodness and honor. However, he still has some respect for the rules of engagement, as he refused to kill Ned Stark when their duel ended abruptly, since Ned was incapacitated by an opportunistic guard rather than Jaime himself - Jaime personally punished that guard seconds after the duel ended. Jaime also was capable of treating his own enemies rather respectfully, telling Ned Stark that his father and brother didn't deserve to die the way Aerys killed them, and saved Olenna Tyrell from a crueler fate that Cersei would have inevitably given her, by allowing her to die painlessly.

After losing his hand and confessing the real reason he killed Aerys to Brienne of Tarth, Jaime begins to redevelop a sense of personal honor once again as he reevaluates his past and future. In no small part to Brienne's influence, Jaime begins to see his father for who he really is and begins to wonder if there are ideals worth fighting for. To this end, he outfits Brienne with new armor and even gifts her the Valyrian steel sword reforged from Ice so that Brienne can fulfill her oath to Catelyn Stark. Jaime himself is more mindful of the promises he makes, and eventually tries offering his solemn oath in certain circumstances, treated with understandable skepticism by the likes of Edmure Tully. Jaime's new outlook develops to the point where he is disgusted with Cersei for stabbing Daenerys's faction in the back, and announces his intention to keep his own promises (although the undead horror bearing down on the Seven Kingdoms clearly has something to do with it).

Jaime is the only member of Tyrion's immediate family who ever treated him with respect or kindness. In fact, he admires Tyrion's intellect and his ability to tell off those who insult him. Jaime never approved of Tywin and Cersei's long history of abuse towards Tyrion, and has always treated him like a brother, the only adult of Tyrion's immediate family to recognize how irrational it was to blame him for their mother's death in childbirth. Indeed, Jaime is the only member of the core Lannister family who has a reasonably good relationship with all of the others. Among the three siblings, Cersei and Tyrion can't stand each other, but they both like Jaime (both Cersei and Tyrion have acknowledged the only reason they haven't gone out of their way to seriously harm or kill each other is because Jaime would never forgive them if they did). However, in recent times, Jaime's good relationship with Tyrion was tarnished with the death of their father, and Jaime said he would kill Tyrion the next time they meet (though it is unclear if he really meant it). His relationship with Cersei has also deteriorated in the aftermath of Tywin's death since it was Jaime who set Tyrion free and inadvertently allowed him to kill their father.[35] Over time, however, and especially after learning that it was Olenna who killed Joffrey, Jaime comes to accept that Tyrion effectively murdered Tywin out of self-defense, a man bound and determined to execute his son; when they meet again in King's Landing, Jaime is initially hostile towards Tyrion, but deep down understands his motives and listens to him, and by the time of the parley in the Dragonpit, Jaime treats Tyrion with the same respect as before, indicating that he has at least partially forgiven his brother.

Tywin was a stern man feared and resented by all of his children, ignoring Cersei for her gender and scorning Tyrion for both his stature and killing his wife in childbirth. However, Jaime is on reasonably good terms with Tywin - not so much that he is "proud" of Jaime so much as he has the "least shame" for him compared to his brother and sister. Even so, Tywin is upset that Jaime willingly joined the Kingsguard, as while it is considered the highest honor for a knight, its members give up the rights to marry or inherit lands, meaning that Jaime cannot be Tywin's heir. Jaime wasn't in a position to act as a father to his biological children with Cersei, though he is generally supportive of Tommen and Myrcella. However, in sharp contrast with Cersei, Jaime isn't particularly fond of Joffrey, nor will he defend his actions the way Cersei does. He shows obvious joy when Myrcella reveals her knowledge that Jaime is her father and is happy about it, and embraces her, since this is the first time he has ever been able to show his feelings as a father to his children. He is equally saddened when Myrcella dies in his arms moments later. He also becomes enraged when the High Sparrow brainwashes his only son, and he contemplates a plan to bloodily finish the High Sparrow's schemes, even though sound judgment states that this plan wouldn't work.

Jaime's attitude towards violence is also complex: he threw Bran Stark out a tower window to kill him, but later saved Brienne twice (from being raped, then fed to a bear) from Locke's soldiers. The difference seems to be that after witnessing the depravations of the Mad King, needless violence and brutality deeply offend Jaime, though if he decides that violence and murder are absolutely necessary he will ruthlessly carry it out himself. He threw Bran out of a window because had the boy reported that he saw the incest between Jaime and his sister, Cersei, the woman he loved, then all of their children would be executed, so he felt he had no choice. Jaime killed his defenseless cousin Alton Lannister in order to orchestrate an escape from Robb Stark's camp, but he deeply regretted it afterwards, subtly hinting at it to Tyrion and then outright confessing to the High Sparrow about it, showing that he has a greater conscience than he is given credit for. This sets him apart from Cersei, who destroyed the Sept of Baelor and everyone inside and around it, and proved unapologetic about what she had done. Jaime also was capable of reproach for the mistakes he made and their consequences, unlike Cersei: he felt guilt for freeing Tyrion because it led to the death of his father, whereas Cersei is blind to her own mistakes, which led to the deaths of her children. The upshot of this is that Jaime has no delusions about his own conscience. He is certainly ruthless when he needs to be, but unlike Cersei or Joffrey he does not act with cruelty for his own enjoyment. Quite the opposite, in fact: the very murder of Aerys that gained Jaime his negative reputation was actually an act of prevention against a potential genocide that would have engulfed all of King's Landing.

Overall, Jaime is a surprisingly skilled battle commander. While he is far less intellectual than Tyrion, he inherited at least some of Tywin's ruthless intelligence, as demonstrated by his decisive handling of the siege of Riverrun; on arriving, he quickly corrected most of the inadequacies that the Freys had created, then ended the entire siege almost bloodlessly by coercing Edmure to enter Riverrun and (as head of House Tully) force his men to surrender. Previously, Jaime had won the Battle of Golden Tooth against the River Lords under Hoster Tully, which forced them back and allowed him to besiege Riverrun. He placed Bronn as his second-in-command in recognition of the man's military prowess, though Bronn followed him more out of ambition than loyalty. Jaime also learns from his mistakes; remembering how Robb Stark tricked him by leaving a small decoy force to be overwhelmed while the rest of the army moved to attack more important targets, Jaime allowed the Unsullied to take Casterly Rock (after having emptied its larders) while taking most of the Lannisters' forces south to storm Highgarden.  Even though he spectacularly lost the Battle of the Goldroad, the battle was almost decided from the start due to Daenerys having overwhelming advantage in numbers and firepower.  Regardless, Jaime quickly recognized that the only way he could turn the tide was by killing the enemy commander, even risking his own life for the sake of a chance to kill Daenerys; this demonstrates him to be a man of courage as well as military skill. 

Jaime seems to care about those beneath him, refusing to flog stragglers after the Sack of Highgarden, refusing to leave his men at the Battle of the Goldroad, and lamenting at how easily the Dothraki army broke his own army. Not only is Jaime a prodigal leader, but he has a good amount of common sense, as evidenced by his decision to ride north to combat the threat that the White Walkers posed to Westeros, and his utter incredulity at Cersei's refusal to contribute.

Joffrey Baratheon 

Myrcella Baratheon 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jaime Lannister is described as extremely handsome with bright green eyes and hair like spun gold. The books do not mention him suffering from dyslexia. He is a prodigious warrior.

At the age of eleven, Jaime was sent to Crakehall, and served as a squire for old Lord Sumner Crakehall for four years (Jaime never served as a squire for Barristan Selmy). While on an errand for Crakehall, Jaime visited Riverrun and at dinner every night Hoster Tully seated him next to his daughter Lysa; Lords Tywin and Hoster were in talks to marry them. However, Jaime was more interested in talking to her famous uncle, Ser Brynden Tully, a hero of his, and hearing of his exploits in the War of the Ninepenny Kings.

Two years later, while still a squire, Jaime won his first tourney melee. When he was fifteen, he and his master accompanied Ser Arthur Dayne and Ser Barristan Selmy in their campaign against the Kingswood Brotherhood. Jaime fought bravely against the Smiling Knight, although was not the one to kill him, and saved the life of Lord Crakehall from another of the outlaws. As a reward, Jaime was knighted by Arthur Dayne on the battlefield.

Jaime eventually realized that his appointment to the Kingsguard was not meant to honor him but to spite his father, whom Aerys was insanely jealous of, to deprive him of his heir and use him as a hostage for Tywin's good behavior, which soured the honor. Jaime rapidly became disillusioned with his new position, as he was forced to watch the various atrocities Aerys committed, forced by his vow to stand by and do nothing.

At the climax of Robert's Rebellion, when the Lannister armies stormed King's Landing, Jaime betrayed his king by murdering him at the foot of the Iron Throne itself. He attacked Aerys on the steps of the Iron Throne, and cut the Mad King's throat rather than stabbing him in the back as in the TV Series. Robert Baratheon forgave Jaime, reasoning that someone had to kill Aerys, and he was just happy that the Lannisters were the ones who got their hands dirty instead of himself. Eddard Stark believed that Jaime should have faced justice for killing Aerys, or at least stripped of his position on the Kingsguard and made to take the black, but Robert didn't want to upset his crucial alliance with Jaime's father Tywin, his own new father-in-law. Jaime is stuck in an ironic situation: Targaryen loyalists despise him for personally killing the last Targaryen king, but even those who joined Robert in rebellion (and wished Aerys dead) often question why he didn't kill Aerys sooner, preventing the loss of life that happened in the war. A small number of people don't even mind what Jaime did or when he did it, but place so much respect on honor and justice that they feel his breach of his Kingsguard vows to defend the king are a sacrilege that can never be forgiven. For his part, Jaime points out that Aerys was a madman who roasted women and babies on spits because the voices in his head told him they were plotting against him, and he has no regrets about killing the Mad King.

Tywin's sister Genna remarks that her nephew Jaime isn't really like his father. Instead, she says Jaime has a combination of the qualities of Tywin's three younger brothers: Tygett's martial prowess, Gerion's sharp sense of humor, and Kevan's sense of honor. Genna insists that Tyrion is the son who inherited Tywin's brilliance and is most like his father, which she even told Tywin once, after which he didn't speak to her for six months.

The early sections of the book A Game of Thrones play to the suspicion that Jaime wants to seize the throne himself, but this is later shown to be a red herring. Also, Robert names him Warden of the East despite not being an Arryn or having any relation to the noble houses of the Vale.

After Jaime is captured in the Battle of the Whispering Wood, he is held at Riverrun, not taken along with Robb's army, though Robb only leaves Riverrun some time later so he can consolidate his forces. No scenes between Jaime and Robb are depicted in the books (as neither is a POV character at this point), though it is entirely plausible that the scene with Robb in Jaime's cell in the Season 2 premiere could have happened in the books, just "off screen", as Robb doesn't immediately leave Riverrun. At first, Jaime is held in comfortable imprisonment in a tower of Riverrun, but after a failed escape attempt, in which he manages to kill two guards and seriously injure a third before being subdued, he is chained up in the dungeon.

The TV series' depiction of an escape attempt by Jaime, during which he kills Torrhen Karstark, is a very loose adaptation of events in the books. In the TV version, Jaime kills Torrhen because he was guarding his cell, which causes Lord Rickard Karstark to become enraged and demand revenge, to the point that Catelyn releases Jaime (in promise of her daughters' safe return from King's Landing) because she fears he won't live out the night. In the books, Jaime killed Rickard's sons Torrhen and Eddard Karstark at the Battle of the Whispering Wood (Eddard Karstark's death is apparently unchanged in the TV version). While Lord Karstark was certainly upset in the books, he wasn't going to go disobey Robb's direct command as his liege-lord that Jaime must remain unharmed (at least because he thought they'd execute him eventually). Catelyn's decision to exchange Jaime as a prisoner isn't rushed by pressure from within the Stark camp, but is rather due to her grief at hearing the (false) report that Bran and Rickon have been killed by Theon at Winterfell. Furthermore, she had recently been told by Cleos Frey that he only saw Sansa when he visited King's Landing, which makes Catelyn wonder if Arya is dead too. Believing (somewhat justifiably) that even holding Jaime as prisoner is no guarantee that the crazed Joffrey won't have her daughters killed on a whim, Catelyn decides that keeping her remaining children safe is what matters most, so she releases Jaime, sending him under escort by Brienne to King's Landing. Rickard Karstark only truly becomes enraged after Catelyn releases Jaime, because he never thought they'd release the killer of his sons, as well as because it is a very poor exchange to trade a prominent Lannister warrior for two girls. The TV series may have moved Torrhen's death around to make it closer to Jaime's release, instead of just mentioning that Jaime killed Torrhen at the end of Season 1 and expecting the audience to remember this over a season later.

Similarly, "Alton Lannister" is actually a renamed version the character Cleos Frey in the books. Cleos' father is a Frey but his mother is a Lannister, and his name may have been changed because of concerns that the audience would be confused as the Freys are on Robb's side. Jaime does not kill him in the books (nor does he kill any of his kin), this is an invention of the TV series. Instead, Cleos is sent back to King's Landing again along with Brienne and Jaime, but is killed by outlaws along the way.

Jaime doesn't appear during virtually all of the second novel, A Clash of Kings, emphasizing that he is a prisoner of the Starks and in isolation. He only appears near the end during one chapter when Catelyn Stark visits him in his cell to release him. Dialogue from this scene in the books was split in two, so that some of it is used in the scene where she releases him late in Season 2, while parts of it were moved back to a separate meeting between Catelyn and Jaime in the Season 1 finale (it was just one long meeting in the book). During their conversation in the book, Jaime bluntly admitted that he and Cersei are lovers; that he is the father of Cersei's kids; that he pushed Bran from the window. Jaime denied any connection to the Catspaw assassin, and revealed to Catelyn that the dagger never belonged to Tyrion, who could not have lost it to Littlefinger when Jaime was unhorsed by Loras Tyrell (as Littlefinger claimed), because Tyrion always bet on Jaime. Catelyn realized that Jaime was telling her the truth. Jaime also told her in detail how the Mad King executed Ned's father and brother. Most of the conversation was omitted from the TV series.

The full oath that Catelyn forces Jaime (while he is drunk, chained to a wall, with a sword pressed to his chest) to swear is "Swear that you will never again take up arms against Stark nor Tully. Swear that you will compel your brother to honor his pledge to return my daughters safe and unharmed. Swear on your honor as a knight, on your honor as a Lannister, on your honor as a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard. Swear it by your sister's life, and your father's, and your son's, by the old gods and the new, and I'll send you back to your sister. Refuse, and I will have your blood". Jaime wonders why would Catelyn trust the word of someone who has broken so many vows in his life; he figures that she puts her trust in Tyrion. He decides that he would return Sansa, and Arya as well (if she could be found); it wouldn't win him back his lost honor, but the notion of keeping his word when everyone expects him not to - amuses him a lot.

Jaime then comes back to the forefront of the narrative in the third novel, A Storm of Swords, even becoming a POV character, but while this can be done in a book, the TV series producers felt that it would be odd for one of the main cast members to disappear for an entire season (similarly, Daenerys Targaryen doesn't appear that much in the second book either, so the TV show padded out her storyline in Qarth). This was partially made up for by showing more events that happened to Jaime "off screen", such as Robb interrogating him (in the season premiere) and actually depicting his failed escape attempt. Their primary solution, however, was to move ahead some of Jaime's storyline from the third book to late Season 2: Jaime is only released from captivity at the very end of the second book (as a cliffhanger), thus all of Jaime's scenes with Brienne leading him back to King's Landing are actually from the beginning of the third book. TV producers Benioff and Weiss insisted that they don't see each season as being required to neatly adapt each book matched to one season, but instead they are trying to adapt the story as a whole, so parts from other books will spill into other seasons as they are required, i.e. pointing out that the Jaime/Brienne scenes in late Season 2 aren't fabrications of the TV series, just moving up some scenes that actually occurred in the next book.

In "Kissed by Fire" Jaime reveals his motivation for assassinating the Mad King to Brienne. In corresponding book scene, Jaime also says that he didn't tell Ned Stark his version of what happened because he knew Lord Stark wouldn't believe him anyway (and even if Ned believed - it wouldn't make any difference because the only thing mattered to Ned was that Jaime acted dishonorably regardless of the reason that made him kill Aerys), but he also goes on to explain to Brienne that the Kingsguard are sworn to keep the king's secrets, and he didn't want to be seen as breaking even more of his vows to King Aerys, even after his death. When Brienne calls for help for the Kingslayer, Jaime merely thinks to himself "Jaime. My name is Jaime.", instead of saying it out loud (though Bryan Cogman explained that Jaime is losing consciousness and just whimpering this to himself, not to Brienne).

Jaime and Brienne do not return to King's Landing in time for Joffrey's wedding. They are still en route back to the capital when they learn of Joffrey's death. Jaime is not particularly upset by the news and reflects that Joffrey was little more to him than "a squirt of seed", and that he deserved to die. At Cersei's insistence, he had kept his distance from their children and never grew too close to them, so as not to arouse suspicion about their true paternity. He decides that, if he had the choice, he would rather have his sword hand than his son back, since he and Cersei can always make another son.

Since Sansa has already escaped by the time he returns to King's Landing (unlike in the show), and Arya is long gone, maybe dead, Jaime is unable to fulfill the second part of his oath to Catelyn. Still, he tries to fulfill it by arming and equipping Brienne as best as he can, including the fine sword Oathkeeper, for the perilous search she intends to conduct.

Jaime gradually grows distant from Cersei too: he refuses her demand to kill Tyrion, since he believes Tyrion is innocent, and Joffrey meant nothing to him. Cersei teases him "Was it your hand they hacked off in Harrenhal, or your manhood?". She feels he has changed (which he did, as a result of Brienne's positive influence and his maiming), and does not like that.

When Jaime releases Tyrion from his cell on the eve of his execution for killing Joffrey, it is the first time the brothers have spoken since they were at Winterfell together. Jaime confesses that he is saving his younger brother partly out of guilt. He reveals that Tysha, Tyrion's first wife, was not a whore. Jaime did not pay her to sleep with Tyrion and he did not arrange for he and Tyrion to rescue her from a gang of rapists. She was in fact all that she appeared to be, a humble crofter's daughter whom they only met by chance on the road. Jaime says their father forced him to tell Tyrion that she was a whore to teach him a lesson. Enraged by this revelation, Tyrion slaps Jaime so hard it knocks him backwards. Out of spite (or perhaps in order to hurt Jaime), he lies that he really did kill Joffrey, and also reveals to Jaime that Cersei has been sleeping with Lancel Lannister and Osmund Kettleblack (actually it is Osney Kettleblack), and maybe others. Tyrion leaves, vowing to return and take revenge on his family.

Tyrion's claim that Cersei has been unfaithful to him leads to Jaime growing increasingly disenchanted with his sister. While he initially thinks it was just a spiteful lie intended to hurt him, he is tormented by the thought, and eventually comes to realize that Tyrion was telling the truth (Lancel confesses to Jaime that he slept with Cersei).

After Tywin's death, Cersei asks Jaime to be the new Hand of the King, but he flatly refuses, having no interest in politics. He is also put off by Cersei's heavy drinking (which leads to her putting on weight), and her paranoia and vindictive scheming, which he warns her are creating enemies where there are none, as well as alienating the few allies she has left. She ignores his advice to appoint experienced men like Kevan Lannister, Randyll Tarly and Paxter Redwyne to her small council, rather than the lickspittles and fools she now surrounds herself with. When Cersei, now a prisoner of the Faith Militant, writes to Jaime pleading for him to return at once to be her champion in her upcoming trial, he does not reply and orders the letter burnt.

To help improve his left-handed swordsmanship, Jaime first enlists his old friend Ser Addam Marbrand to spar with him. Fearing that Ser Addam could get drunk and let slip the truth about his diminished skills, Jaime then turns to Ser Ilyn Payne, reasoning that, being unable to speak or write, Payne is not likely to tell anyone. He never trains with Bronn, as portrayed in the TV series. Jaime practises diligently, determined to regain his fighting skills, but his progress is very slow. After every practice, he and Ilyn sit and drink together. Jaime finds Ilyn the perfect drinking companion, for he never interrupts Jaime, never disagrees, never complains or asking for favors or tells long pointless stories. Jaime feels comfortable to chat with Ilyn that he reveals to him his darkest secrets, like the time he nearly killed Arya at Cersei's request, as a payback for the injuries her direwolf inflicted on Joffrey.

Jaime does not travel to Dorne to rescue Myrcella from any danger. Cersei instead sends him to the Riverlands to end the siege and persuade Brynden Tully to surrender Riverrun to the Frey garrison in exchange for Edmure Tully's safety, while Ser Balon Swann is sent to Dorne to bring Myrcella (and also to play his part in Cersei's failed scheme to assassinate Trystane Martell). Jaime is still in the Riverlands when Ser Balon reports Kevan about the attempt on Myrcella, who survived but was horribly disfigured, thus he has no idea what happened to her by the point the books reached.

Jaime is never dismissed from the Kingsguard. He obeys the command to travel to Riverrun, but intends to keep the first part of his oath to Catelyn - to resolve the siege without spilling blood, and he succeeds: Riverrun yields, and none of the participants, besiegers and besieged alike, is harmed. Although the Blackfish escapes, Jaime is content for preventing bloodshed.

On the way to Riverrun, Jaime stops at Darry, where Lancel confesses tearfully to him about his part in Robert's death and his affair with Cersei. That confession clears any doubts Jaime had about his sister; moreover, it makes him realize she is responsible for the murder of the previous High Septon, too.

After resolving the siege of Riverrun, Jaime gives a lot of thought about his surviving children. He wants to be a father figure to Tommen, to have him raised properly, to protect him from Cersei's negative influence before she can turn him to another Joffrey. He believes Kevan is the best choice for Tommen's Hand. He also considers revealing to Tommen and Myrcella that the rumors spread by Stannis about their origin are true, but is unsure whether it is a good idea: confirming that they are not Robert's offsprings will cost Tommen his throne, and may cost Myrcella her betrothal to Trystane Martell.

Following Cersei's arrest (which takes place while Jaime is away), she sends him a letter, pleading to be her champion at her trial. Jaime knows that even if goes back, he cannot hope to save her: he is certain that she is guilty of all the crimes she is charged with (among them incest, adultery, regicide and deicide), and he is short a sword hand. He tells his squire to burn the letter - either to destroy any evidence of their incest, or perhaps as a symbolic gesture of severing their relationship permanently.

From Riverrun Jaime continues to Raventree Hall, the last stronghold at the Riverlands that has not yielded yet to the crown.

By the time of the War of the Five Kings, Jaime is one of the most skilled and dangerous warriors in all of Westeros, ranking alongside Gregor Clegane, Loras Tyrell, and Barristan Selmy as arguably the best swordsman on the entire continent. Gregor's prowess relies more on his immense strength than on skill, while Barristan is self-admittedly not as young and quick as he used to be. Loras is not quite as experienced as Jaime yet, but is one of the few knights who has on rare occasion actually managed to knock Jaime off his horse during a joust. Jaime, meanwhile, is at the peak of both youth and experience, and even his enemies often consider him to be the most skilled living warrior in Westeros, albeit not the most honorable one. During the Battle of the Whispering Wood, even with his army ambushed and wiped out, Jaime managed to single-handedly carve a path through the Stark army until he reached Robb Stark, and almost managed to kill Robb before he was knocked unconscious. This short list is supported in the TV series in "The Prince of Winterfell", when Jaime boasts to Brienne of Tarth that he thinks there are only three men in Westeros who might have even a chance of beating him in combat.

Following his maiming, Jaime is determined to regain his fighting skills, practicing diligently, but his progress is very slow. He learns to rely on his brain rather than his sword. He is more cautious and less rash than before.

Unknown

Ser Gerold Hightower



