Episode1---------------------------------

Jon Snow's corpse is found by Ser Davos, Edd and a few other loyalists; Davos and the others take him inside and lock themselves behind a door with him, while Edd goes to get help. Thorne assumes command of the Watch. At Winterfell, Ramsay mourns for Myranda, while Sansa and Theon escape through the woods. Ramsay's men catch up with them, and are about to take them captive, when Brienne and Pod arrive, kill the men, and the former is accepted into Sansa's service. In King's Landing, Cersei receives Jaime, who arrives with Myrcella's body. Jaime promises Cersei they will take their revenge. Obara and Nymeria murder Trystane, on his way home from King's Landing, while in Sunspear, Doran and Areo Hotah are killed by Ellaria and Tyene, after the former learns of Myrcella's death. In Meereen, Tyrion and Varys find all the ships burning in the harbor. Jorah and Daario continue to track Daenerys, who is taken by the Dothraki to Khal Moro. In Braavos, Arya lives on the streets as a beggar, where she is beaten by the Waif. In her chamber, Melisandre removes her bejeweled necklace as she reveals her true appearance as an old crone.

Episode2---------------------------------

Brandon visits Winterfell in a vision of the past, and sees Eddard, Benjen, and their sister Lyanna, as well as a young Hodor. Edd arrives with Tormund and a group of Wildlings, imprisoning Thorne and the other mutineers. Tommen asks Cersei to teach him to be strong. Tyrion learns that Astapor and Yunkai have reverted to slavery, and releases Rhaegal and Viserion from their chains. In Braavos, Arya is attacked by the Waif before H'ghar appears and recruits her again. Walda, Roose's wife, gives birth to a boy, prompting Ramsay to murder Roose, her, and the baby. Brienne reveals to Sansa that Arya is still alive. Sansa permits Theon's return to the Iron Islands, where his uncle Euron reappears and murders King Balon. Davos persuades Melisandre to attempt to resurrect Jon. At first, her attempts seem to fail. However, once everyone leaves the room, he awakens.

Episode3---------------------------------

On a boat on their way to Oldtown, Tarly reveals his intent to leave Gilly and her baby with the former's family at Horn Hill while he trains to be a Maester. In a vision of the past, Brandon sees Eddard and Howland, Meera's father, defeat a group of Kingsguard loyal to the Targaryens at the Tower of Joy in Dorne. Varys discovers that the masters of Astapor, Yunkai, and Volantis have been financing the Sons of the Harpy. In King's Landing, Tommen converses with the High Sparrow while Jaime and Cersei interrupt a small council meeting, only to be shunned by Kevan and the Tyrells. Cersei's bodyguard is revealed to be Gregor. Arya trains rigorously with the Waif and her sight is returned to her once she has accepted herself as "no-one". In Winterfell, Lord Umber asks Ramsay for help in protecting the North from the Wildlings, bringing Rickon and Osha as a gift, along with the head of Shaggydog, Rickon's direwolf. Jon executes Thorne, Olly and the other officers involved in his assassination. He renounces his oath and puts Tollett in charge of the Night's Watch.

Episode4---------------------------------

Sansa's party arrives at Castle Black as she is reunited with Jon. In Meereen, Tyrion meets with the slave masters of Slaver's Bay to offer peace if they will end slavery within a period of seven years, an action that angers the former slaves. Baelish returns to the Vale to mobilize their soldiers against Ramsay. Naharis learns about Mormont's greyscale as they arrive in Vaes Dothrak. In King's Landing, Margaery is permitted to visit Loras while Cersei, Jaime, Kevan and Olenna put aside their differences and plan a defeat of the Sparrows. Theon arrives at Pyke and explains to Yara that he will support her claim at the Kingsmoot. In Winterfell, Osha attempts to assassinate Ramsay but is killed by him. Ramsay sends a letter to Jon, threatening harm to Rickon if Sansa is not returned. She convinces Jon to  march south in order to take back Winterfell. Daenerys meets with the Khals in the temple of the Dosh Khaleen; after they refuse to serve her, she burns them and Moro to death. When she emerges unhurt, the Dothraki kneel to her.

Episode5---------------------------------

Sansa meets Baelish, who offers the support of the Vale and tells her that Brynden Tully, her great uncle, is gathering an army in Riverrun; she initially refuses his help. Jon and Sansa leave Castle Black to gather support from the other Northern houses, with her sending Brienne to Brynden. In Braavos, Arya is given a second chance to prove her loyalty by killing an actress. Beyond the Wall, Brandon learns that the White Walkers were created by the Children of the Forest to protect themselves from the First Men. In the Iron Islands, Euron wins the Kingsmoot despite confessing to killing Balon, causing Yara and Theon to flee. In Essos, Daenerys learns about Mormont's greyscale, ordering him to find a cure and return. In Meereen, a red priestess named Kinvara meets Tyrion and Varys and promises to support Daenerys. Brandon's unaccompanied vision causes him to be touched by the Night King, making the cave vulnerable. The Night King, along with White Walkers and hordes of wights, attack the cave, killing the Three-Eyed Raven, several Children, Summer, and Hodor, whose younger self is shown to have been rendered mentally disabled by Brandon's interference.

Episode6---------------------------------

Meera escapes into the forest with Bran who is still immersed in his visions. He comes to just as the wights have tracked them down, but are quickly saved by a mysterious man. Samwell and Gilly reach the Tarly family estate Horn Hill. After Sam's father, Randyll, insults her for being a Wildling, Sam decides to take her with him to the Citadel, also stealing House Tarly's ancestral Valyrian steel sword, Heartsbane. Arya warns the actress about her mission to assassinate her, recovering the Needle. H'ghar approves of the Waif's request to kill Arya. Jaime attempts to rescue Margaery from the Faith Militant, only to find she has repented and Tommen has forged an alliance with the Faith. He removes Jaime from the Kingsguard and orders him to help Walder Frey, who is holding Edmure Tully hostage, and to retake Riverrun from Brynden. Bran and Meera learn that the man who saved them is Benjen, who explains that he was turned by the White Walkers but then later unturned by the Children using Dragonglass. Daenerys mounts Drogon and declares to the Dothraki that they will sail across the Narrow Sea to conquer Westeros.

Episode7---------------------------------

Margaery convinces Olenna to return to Highgarden after the High Sparrow says that he will pursue Olenna following her attempt to engage the Faith. Jon, Sansa, and Davos recruit the Wildlings and House Mormont to their cause, but remain outnumbered by the Boltons. In desperation, Sansa writes a letter begging for aid. Jaime arrives in Riverrun with Bronn, assuming control of the siege. The former goes to parley with Brynden, ultimately being unsuccessful. Theon and Yara spend their last night in Volantis, deciding to sail to Meereen to ally with Daenerys. In Braavos, Arya prepares to return to Westeros, but is attacked by the Waif. Arya is badly wounded but escapes. Sandor is revealed to be alive, having been saved by a Septon and his followers. When men from the Brotherhood threaten and eventually slaughter the group, Sandor decides to get revenge.

Episode8---------------------------------

Tommen abolishes trial by combat, much to the dismay of Cersei, who planned to win using Gregor. Brienne arrives in Riverrun and attempts to persuade Brynden to surrender, without success. After Jaime threatens to kill Edmure's young son, he enters the castle and orders the Tully forces to stand down, but Brynden is killed fighting the Lannisters. Brienne and Podrick escape. Varys departs Meereen on an unknown mission. Meereen comes under naval assault by the slaving cities, but Daenerys returns. Sandor kills the outlaws who sacked his village and encounters Dondarrion and Thoros, who explain that the outlaws were renegades. They try to convince Sandor to join the Brotherhood. Arya is taken in by the actress, who heals her wounds. In the morning, the Waif arrives, kills the actress and chases Arya through the streets of Braavos. Arya leads the Waif into the catacombs and kills her. She returns the Waif's face to the House and declares that she is Arya Stark of Winterfell and she is going home.

Episode9---------------------------------

Daenerys meets with the slave masters to negotiate terms of surrender, but they refuse it. Riding Drogon, as Rhaegal and Viserion assist, Daenerys attacks and burns the slavers' fleet. Grey Worm kills two of the masters, leaving one to tell of what he had witnessed. After the battle, Theon and Yara meet with Daenerys and Tyrion and agree to an alliance. Near Winterfell, the Stark and Bolton armies meet on the field. Ramsay feigns setting Rickon free, but kills him with a long-distance arrow before Jon can save him. In the battle, the Stark forces are pinned by Bolton soldiers, but are rescued by the Knights of the Vale. Ramsay flees inside Winterfell, but the Wildling giant Wun Wun, having taken numerous arrows to his body, manages to break down the gate before succumbing to his wounds. Jon brutally beats Ramsay and takes him prisoner. Sansa later visits Ramsay's cell in the kennels and watches as his starving hounds devour him.

Episode10---------------------------------

Before her trial, Cersei destroys the Sept of Baelor by wildfire, killing the High Sparrow, Margaery, Mace and Loras Tyrell, Lancel and Kevan Lannister, along with hundreds of King's Landing nobles and the Faith Militant, while Qyburn has Pycelle killed. Tommen commits suicide. In Dorne, Varys meets with Olenna and Ellaria, seeking to form an alliance between Daenerys and their houses against the Lannisters. Davos confronts Melisandre over the death of Shireen; Jon banishes her from Winterfell. The Wildlings, the Knights of the Vale and the surviving Houses of the North pledge loyalty to Jon as the new King in the North. Sansa stops Baelish from getting intimate with her. Arya kills Walder Frey and his sons. Tarly and Gilly reach the Citadel in Oldtown. Benjen tells Brandon and Meera to pass the Wall without him. Brandon uses his powers and learns that Jon is actually the son of Lyanna, being adopted by Eddard after she died during Robert's rebellion. Jaime returns to King's Landing to find Qyburn crowning Cersei the new monarch of the Seven Kingdoms. Daenerys leaves Naharis and the Second Sons to rule Meereen before she sets sail to Westeros with her other companions, armies and dragons.

Episode11---------------------------------
