Episode1---------------------------------

At the Twins, Arya fatally poisons the remaining lords of House Frey. The White Walkers march toward the Wall, where Tollett allows Bran and Meera inside. At Winterfell, despite Sansa's disapproval, Jon secures the loyalties of Houses Umber and Karstark, who fought alongside Ramsay in the Battle of the Bastards. At the Citadel, Samwell steals books that reveal a large reservoir of dragonglass in Dragonstone, and sends word to Jon. He later finds Jorah in a cell. In the Riverlands, Arya meets a group of friendly Lannister soldiers, who take her intention to kill Cersei as a joke. Thoros shows Sandor a vision in the fire. The revelation leads him to believe in the Lord of Light. In King's Landing, Jaime tells Cersei of the crucial need for allies. She welcomes Euron, who proposes marriage to her in exchange for his Iron Fleet and a chance to kill Theon and Yara. Cersei declines, citing trust as a concern, so Euron promises to return with a "gift" to prove his loyalty. Daenerys arrives at Dragonstone, the home of House Targaryen once occupied by Stannis, with her army and dragons.

Episode2---------------------------------

Daenerys sends the Dornishmen with Yara's fleet to Sunspear and the Unsullied to Casterly Rock, deciding to place King's Landing under siege. She questions Varys' loyalty and threatens to burn him alive if he ever betrays her. Melisandre arrives and encourages her to invite Jon Snow to Dragonstone. Grey Worm and Missandei consummate their relationship. Cersei gathers several lords, asking for their fealties and elevating Randyll Tarly as Warden of the South. Qyburn shows Cersei a prototype ballista capable of harming dragons. Arya meets with Hot Pie and learns of Jon's ascension to King in the North, halting plans to travel to King's Landing and instead setting course for Winterfell. After receiving Samwell's letter, Jon leaves for Dragonstone in hopes of convincing Daenerys to support the fight against the White Walkers. He leaves Sansa in charge and aggressively warns Littlefinger to keep his distance. Samwell applies a forbidden treatment on Jorah's greyscale infection. Euron's fleet attacks Yara's. Obara and Nymeria are killed, while Ellaria, Tyene, and Yara are captured. Theon shows flashes of his time as Reek, hesitating to challenge Euron before fleeing the carnage by jumping into the sea.

Episode3---------------------------------

Jon arrives at Dragonstone. Daenerys demands his fealty. He refuses and focuses instead on convincing her to fight the Army of the Dead. Following Tyrion's advice, Daenerys grants Jon access to the island's dragonglass. Melisandre hides her presence from Jon and leaves for Volantis. Bran arrives at Winterfell and reveals his newfound role as the Three-Eyed Raven to Sansa. In King's Landing, Euron returns with Ellaria and Tyene as a gift for Cersei, who promises to marry him after the war is won. She also awards him co-control of her military alongside Jaime. Cersei administers to Tyene the same poison used to kill Myrcella, forcing Ellaria to watch her daughter's impending death. In Oldtown, a healed Jorah leaves to find Daenerys. Ebrose forgives Samwell. Grey Worm and the Unsullied attack Casterly Rock, only to find it mostly abandoned. Jaime led most of the Lannister forces in an attack on Highgarden, while Euron's fleet ambushes and destroys the Unsullied's ships. The Lannister forces overwhelm Olenna's army. Jaime induces Olenna to drink poison, offering her a quick and painless death. After drinking it, she confesses to poisoning Joffrey.

Episode4---------------------------------

Arya returns to Winterfell, where she reunites with Sansa and spars with Brienne, both of whom are unnerved by her exceptional fighting skills. Bran unemotionally bids farewell to Meera, divulging that he is no longer the boy she accompanied through the North. Littlefinger presents Bran with the dagger that was previously used in his attempted assassination. Cersei assures the Iron Bank a full return on their investment, as a train carrying gold from Highgarden is on its way to King's Landing. In a cave filled with dragonglass, Jon reveals ancient paintings to Daenerys depicting the First Men and the Children of the Forest joining forces against the undead. Later, Daenerys learns of the sacking of Highgarden by Lannister forces and realizes her attack on Casterly Rock was a distraction. Despite Tyrion's protests, she decides to take action. Led by Daenerys riding Drogon, the Dothraki cavalry catches the Lannister army by surprise and decimate or capture its remaining forces. Drogon is wounded during the fight by a spear fired from the scorpion ballista being manned by Bronn. Jaime mounts a desperate charge on horseback at a vulnerable Daenerys, but Drogon spews fire in time to thwart the attack. Bronn tackles Jaime into the river in time to save him.

Episode5---------------------------------

Jaime and Bronn return to King's Landing. Against Tyrion's advice, Daenerys has Drogon burn Randyll and Dickon Tarly alive for remaining allegiant to Cersei, forcing the other captives to pledge fealty to the former. Jorah arrives at Dragonstone and reunites with Daenerys. Maester Wolkan alerts Jon and the Citadel about the approaching wights to Eastwatch by the Sea. Jon decides to travel beyond the Wall and capture a wight in order to convince Cersei for a temporary alliance. Davos smuggles Tyrion inside King's Landing, where he secretly meets with Jaime and offers an armistice, which Cersei accepts, informing Jaime that she is pregnant. Davos rendezvous with Gendry and returns him to Dragonstone. With the Citadel ignoring Wolkan's letter, Samwell steals several books and leaves with Gilly and Little Sam. At Winterfell, Littlefinger notices Arya spying on him and leads her to take a letter written by Sansa from his room. Jon, Jorah, and Gendry, joined by the Hound, the Brotherhood, and a group of the Free Folk led by Tormund, leave Eastwatch and pass the Wall, intending to capture a wight as evidence for Cersei that the Army of the Dead is real.

Episode6---------------------------------

At Winterfell, Littlefinger plots to isolate Sansa. Tensions between Arya and Sansa grow following Arya's discovery of the letter Sansa sent as a child begging for Robb's fealty to Joffrey. Sansa discovers Arya's bag of faces she took from Braavos. At Dragonstone, Tyrion counsels Daenerys about her upcoming negotiations with Cersei. Beyond the Wall, Jon leads a raiding party to capture a wight to bring South as evidence of the White Walkers' existence. After successfully capturing one, the group is besieged by the White Walker army. Jon has Gendry return to Eastwatch and send a raven to Daenerys to request her help. Thoros freezes to death overnight. Daenerys arrives and saves the group from the wights, with the help of her dragons. The Night King, leader of the White Walkers, throws an ice spear at Viserion, one of Daenerys' dragons, and kills it. Daenerys flies off, along with the raiding party, but is unable to save Jon. Benjen Stark intervenes and sacrifices himself to allow Jon to escape. When Jon and Daenerys are reunited, Jon pledges himself and the North to Daenerys as Queen. The Night King resurrects Viserion, making the dragon a part of his army.

Episode7---------------------------------
