Lord Tyrion Lannister is the youngest child of Lord Tywin Lannister and younger brother of Cersei and Jaime Lannister. A dwarf, he uses his wit and intellect to overcome the prejudice he faces.

His abduction by Catelyn Stark for a crime he did not commit serves as one of the catalysts of the War of the Five Kings. After escaping his captors, Tyrion is appointed by his father as acting Hand of the King to Joffrey Baratheon and successfully defends King's Landing against Stannis Baratheon at the Battle of the Blackwater, after which he is stripped of his power, demoted to Master of Coin and eventually framed for Joffrey's murder. After his champion, Oberyn Martell, dies in Tyrion's trial by combat, Tyrion flees to Essos with help from Jaime and Varys after murdering his father.

In the east, he is captured by Jorah Mormont and taken to Daenerys Targaryen in Meereen, whom Varys had intended for Tyrion to meet anyway. Daenerys decides to enlist his help in reclaiming the Iron Throne. For his loyalty and service, Tyrion is named as Hand of the Queen to Daenerys before they set sail for Westeros with her new army and allies, ready to advise her when they reach her ancestral home of Dragonstone, where he acts as her strategist during her invasion of Westeros.

Tyrion Lannister is the youngest son of Joanna Lannister and Lord Tywin Lannister. Tywin is the head of House Lannister, the richest man in the Seven Kingdoms and Lord Paramount of the Westerlands. The Westerlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Lannister of Casterly Rock is one of the Great Houses of the realm. He is the younger brother of Jaime and Cersei Lannister. His mother Joanna Lannister died giving birth to him. His father and sister blame Tyrion for the death.[2][3]

His two siblings have had positions of respect and responsibility since their teens. When Tyrion turned sixteen (the age of manhood), Tywin Lannister put Tyrion in charge of the drains and cisterns at Casterly Rock. Tyrion brags that the "[sewage] never flowed [smoother] to the sea."[6]

Tyrion once encountered Lord Gregor Forrester at the Tourney in Lannisport. While they once spoke briefly, Tyrion found Gregor very honorable, even mentioning it to Gregor's daughter Mira years later.

Tyrion visits a whorehouse upon his arrival in Winterfell.
Tyrion spends a lot of time at court in King's Landing to avoid his father. He gets on well with Jaime and his niece Myrcella and nephew Tommen, but has a colder relationship with Cersei and his sadistic nephew Joffrey.[7] He has a fondness for prostitutes and drink, but is also intelligent, cunning, and educated. He also is a kind man who would protect the innocent, claiming that he loves broken things.

Tyrion while in Winterfell
When Tyrion's nephew, Prince Joffrey Baratheon, refuses to pay his respects to Lord and Lady Stark after Bran's fall, Tyrion slaps him three times until he acquiesces. He then breakfasts with his family, where he reveals that he wants to go and visit the Wall - to see it and piss off of it, he says, to the laughter of Tommen and Myrcella, before returning to King's Landing. He takes an interest in Bran's fall and how it happened, noting carefully his brother and sister's reactions to the news that Bran is likely to live.[4]

On the road to Castle Black, Tyrion explains to Jon that he likes to read as it keeps his wits sharp, just as his brother's whetstone keeps his sword sharp. Reaching the Wall, even Tyrion is temporarily rendered speechless by the size and scale of the structure.[4] During his stay, Tyrion watches the new recruits train. He realizes that Jon Snow, due to his advantages of being trained by a castle master-at-arms at Winterfell, is acting superior to his fellow recruits, embarrassing them by beating them easily in training. After Tyrion points this out, Jon begins helping the others train, earning their respect and friendship. Maester Aemon and Lord Commander Jeor Mormont ask him to use his influence at court to get more men and resources sent to the Night's Watch. Tyrion is sympathetic, but doesn't believe that there is anything more dangerous than wildlings beyond the Wall. However, Benjen Stark's account of life beyond the Wall gives him pause. Tyrion befriends Yoren, a recruiter for the Watch, and they agree to travel back to the capital together.[10]

Tyrion speaks with Bran.
Pausing at Winterfell on the return trip home, Tyrion gives Bran plans for a special saddle so that he can ride even in his crippled state. He taunts Theon Greyjoy about his family's defeat during their uprising before leaving. Stopping at the Crossroads Inn on the way home, he is surprised to meet Catelyn Stark, and even more so when she denounces him as an attempted murderer and has him arrested by her father's bannermen to face the King's justice. She was told by Petyr Baelish that the knife used in the assassination attempt on Bran was one Tyrion won from Petyr by betting on a jousting tournament.[11] Catelyn takes Tyrion, protesting his innocence, to the Eyrie. A sellsword from the inn, Bronn, accompanies them and notes Tyrion's wealth and a promise he will handsomely reward any man who aids him. Along the way they are attacked by some of the hill tribes and Tyrion kills his first man, bashing in the skull of an attacking tribesman with a shield. Tyrion warns Catelyn that her sister, Lysa, has become irrational with grief and will try to kill him. She is skeptical, but once at the Eyrie, Tyrion's warning proves accurate.Lysa hysterically accuses him not only of the attempted murder of Bran, but also of conspiring in that of her husband Jon Arryn, the former Hand of the King who died under mysterious circumstances, which Lysa tells Catelyn was one of the Lannisters' doing. Tyrion is thrown into one of the Eyrie's "sky-cells", dungeons which simply open on their fourth side to the open air with a drop of many thousands of feet to the valley below.[9]

Tyrion defends himself with the shield of House Bracken.
Tyrion bargains with his jailor, Mord, to get an audience with Lady Arryn. He "confesses" to being a whoremonger and dwarf, but truthfully insists that he is not guilty of the crime of murdering Jon Arryn or trying to murder Bran. He demands a trial by combat as is his right, and his wish is granted when the sellsword Bronn agrees to stand as his champion. Bronn defeats and kills Lady Arryn's champion, Ser Vardis Egen. By the laws of Westeros this means that Tyrion has proven his innocence in the eyes of the gods, and he is released from the Eyrie to face the perilous journey back through the tribesman-infested hills. Bronn accompanies him.[12] Tyrion establishes some ground rules with Bronn, saying he will pay more money than anyone else who attempts to bribe him to betray Tyrion. They are then surrounded by men of the hill tribes, led by Shagga. Tyrion uses his quick wit and words to win the allegiance of the tribes, offering to better equip them for battle and help them conquer the Vale of Arryn in return for their help. Shagga agrees, though he notes that if Tyrion tries to renege on his promise he will cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats.

Tyrion in the sky cells of the Eyrie.
Tywin Lannister's forces have been attacking Catelyn's home in the Riverlands ever since she arrested Tyrion. It's not that he cares so much about Tyrion, he explains to Jaime, but because even though Tyrion is the least of them he is still a Lannister, and if they allow one of their own to be taken so easily, they risk losing the respect of the other Houses. The hillmen deliver Tyrion to his father's army, where he learns that Robb Stark is leading an army to war. Tyrion warns his father that Robb should not be underestimated. Tywin agrees to honor Tyrion's alliance with the hill tribes. When Shagga says they will only fight if Tyrion is with them on the field, Tywin also agrees, to Tyrion's dismay.[13]

Tyrion drinks with Bronn before battle.
Tyrion attempts to learn more about Shae via a drinking game, but finds his questions deflected. Instead he tells her about his own past with Tysha, a wheelwright's daughter. They married and spent several happy weeks together until Tywin learned of the matter. Tywin had Jaime tell Tyrion the truth, that Tysha was a prostitute that Jaime had paid to make his brother happy for a while. Tywin then gave her a piece of silver for every one of his guards she had sex with while Tyrion was forced to watch. Since then Tyrion has never attempted to take a wife or lover, only whores he can pay and send on their way.[5]

The next morning, Tyrion leads the tribes into battle, but is knocked out by one of his own warriors' mis-swung hammers just as the engagement begins. Recovering after the battle, Tyrion learns from his father that Robb deceived them, delaying their army with a feinting force so the main Stark host can fall on and defeat Jaime's army in battle.[5] 

Tyrion discusses the future with his father.
With Jaime captured, Robb's forces now allied to those of the Riverlands and both Stannis and Renly Baratheon claiming the Iron Throne, the odds have swung against the Lannisters. Tywin risks being caught between three armies, so he retreats to Harrenhal. Tyrion makes shrewd observations about the ominous turn the current situation has taken now that Joffrey has killed Eddard Stark. Grudgingly impressed, Tywin orders Tyrion to report to King's Landing and act as the Hand of the King to try to keep Joffrey in line and execute any of the Small Council members if they try anything treasonous. Tywin forbids him to take "that whore" with him, but Tyrion defies him and asks Shae to come to King's Landing with him.[14]

Tyrion visits Myrcella, Joffrey, and Tommen upon his return to King's Landing.
Tyrion arrives in King's Landing, accompanied by Bronn, Lannister-soldiers and members of the hill tribes. He assumes the role of acting Hand of the King to Joffrey Baratheon, who isn't happy to see him, unlike Myrcella and Tommen.

After taking his seat at the small council, he clashes with his sister, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, over her failure to stop the execution of his predecessor as hand, Eddard Stark. He also criticizes her for allowing Arya Stark to escape, as the girl and her father could have been useful to bargain for the return of Jaime, and now they only have one Stark hostage instead of three. He installs Shae in the Tower of the Hand, in defiance of his father's orders.[15]

Tyrion warns Varys not to underestimate him after the Spider discovers Shae's presence and lets Tyrion know that he is aware of her. During a small council session, Tyrion finds himself the only sympathetic ear to a request by the Night's Watch for aid from the throne. He also criticizes Cersei's lack of talent for diplomacy when she rejects peace terms from Robb Stark brought by their cousin Ser Alton Lannister. Tyrion invites Lord Janos Slynt for dinner and gets him to confess his part in the recent massacre of King Robert's bastards as well as his part in the betrayal of Eddard. After openly noting Slynt's lack of honor, Tyrion has Lord Janos exiled to the Wall as punishment, and installs Bronn as commander of the City Watch in his place.[3]

Tyrion returns to King's Landing with Shae.
Tyrion arranges for Shae to serve as a handmaiden to Sansa Stark when she demands more freedom. He tests the loyalty of the remaining small council members by feeding them varying plans for marriage alliances involving Princess Myrcella Baratheon. He is confronted by Cersei about sending Myrcella to Dorne in a betrothal to the youngest son of House Martell. Tyrion has Pycelle thrown into the black cells for revealing the information given only to him. Varys congratulates him for the ploy to lure out the Queen's informant. Tyrion is also confronted by an angry Petyr Baelish for having been unwittingly involved in the ruse; nevertheless, Tyrion recruits Littlefinger in a plan to convince Catelyn Stark to release Jaime, offering him Harrenhal and the title of Lord Paramount of the Riverlands.[16]

Tyrion is shocked and furious to find Joffrey orchestrating the public beating of Sansa for her brother's victory in the Battle of Oxcross. He orders a halt to the proceedings, and warns Joffrey to consider his actions more carefully, lest he wants to suffer the same fate as the Mad King. He then escorts Sansa out of the throne room. Bronn suggests that Joffrey would benefit from sexual release. Tyrion arranges for two whores for his nephew but Joffrey forces one to beat the other as a message to Tyrion.[17]

Lancel Lannister visits Tyrion to demand the release of Pycelle on Cersei's behalf. Tyrion notes the lateness of the hour and traps Lancel into admitting his sexual relationship with Cersei. Tyrion uses the information to blackmail Lancel into acting as his informant.[17] Tyrion reports news of King Renly Baratheon's death to Cersei. She is pleased, but Tyrion predicts Stannis Baratheon's imminent attack having assumed control of Renly's men. He tries to discuss plans for their defense, but she insists on keeping them secret. He learns that she is reliant of the Alchemists' Guild from Lancel. He visits Wisdom Hallyne and learns that the guild have stockpiled thousands of jars of Wildfire to use as catapult ammunition. Bronn sees this strategy as potentially disastrous because of the volatile nature of wildfire. Tyrion orders Hallyne to answer to him instead of Cersei. He passes a street protest that blames him for the ills of the city, as the people believe him to be manipulating Joffrey.[18]

Tyrion and the court assemble at the shore of Blackwater Bay for the departure of Princess Myrcella. Cersei remains angry about Tyrion's arrangements for her daughter, threatening to one day deprive him of someone he loves.

Tyrion and Cersei watch as Myrcella departs for Dorne.
As they return to the Red Keep through the city, they are confronted by angry crowds of starving Smallfolk. Sensing the imminent danger, Tyrion orders a guard to escort Prince Tommen back to the Keep by another route. Shortly after, Joffrey is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a riot by demanding that his guards kill everyone in the crowd. Tyrion is horrified when the High Septon is torn to pieces by the famished crowd. He marshals his guards to lead him to safety.[19]

Once the royal family is safely separated from the mob, Tyrion confronts Joffrey for triggering the riot and the war that preceded it, calling him a vicious idiot. He slaps Joffrey when his nephew refuses to listen to the criticism. Tyrion orders Meryn Trant to retrieve the missing Sansa, knowing that Jaime's life is also on the line, but Meryn will not follow his orders. He is relieved when Sandor Clegane brings her to safety.[19]

Cersei confesses that she believes Joffrey's viciousness might be the price she pays for her sin of incest with Jaime. Tyrion does not know how to comfort his sister in this rare moment of vulnerability, but reminds her that both Myrcella and Tommen are kind and gentle. Word that Stannis' fleet is days away reinforces the need to control Joffrey.[20] 

Tyrion rallies the Lannister troops.
Tyrion turns to books for insight into siege defense tactics, but Bronn warns that the grim realities of a siege cannot be understood from reading. Tyrion affirms the loyalty of Varys and is enigmatic about his plans for the battle, but believes Stannis will attack at the Mud Gate.[6]

On the ramparts, Joffrey wishes to attack Robb Stark's forces now that Winterfell has fallen to the Ironborn, but Tyrion advises against it, due to Stannis' impending attack on King's Landing. After Joffrey leaves, Varys commends Tyrion on his ability to play the game of thrones, then warns him that Daenerys Targaryen has survived and has three dragons. Once again, Tyrion prefers to focus on the problem at hand.

After learning that Joffrey is keen to fight in defense of the city, Cersei is furious and suspects Tyrion of trying to kill her son. She mistakenly identifies Ros as his lover because of the Lannister pendant Tyrion gave her and seizes the opportunity to deliver on the threat she made when Myrcella left. Cersei has the prostitute kidnapped as insurance against Tyrion placing Joffrey in harm's way. 

Tyrion at the Battle of the Blackwater.
She reveals her ploy over dinner. Tyrion is relieved that Shae is unhurt, vows to free Ros and when the prostitute is taken away, he promises Cersei that he will exact revenge on her. He rushes back to his lover's side and confesses the depth of his feeling for her while warning that they must be doubly careful.[6]

Tyrion leads the defense of the city during the Battle of the Blackwater. He commands the defenders at the Mud Gate. He destroys a large portion of the attacking fleet by luring them into a trap; a ship filled with Wildfire and allowed to leak its cargo into the bay. He signals Bronn to detonate the Wildfire using a flaming arrow. Stannis continues with the assault, landing his troops further out in the bay to avoid the devastation of the explosion. Tyrion's initial attempts to repel the attackers are unsuccessful and Cersei has Joffrey withdrawn to the Red Keep, with the King leaving Ser Mandon Moore and Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard to fight in his name. Tyrion is faced with increasing dissent from his troops but rallies them with a rousing speech. He personally leads a sortie through the tunnels under the city, destroying Stannis' siege equipment. He is trapped outside the walls by a group of reinforcements and then betrayed by Ser Mandon. Mandon slashes Tyrion across the face but Podrick kills him before he can finish Tyrion off. As Tyrion collapses into unconsciousness a host of Lannister-Tyrell reinforcements led by a man wearing Renly's armor arrives to claim the victory.[21]

Tyrion shows Shae his scarred face
Tyrion awakens to find Pycelle looming over him. The reinstated Grand Maester gloatingly informs Tyrion that he has been relieved as Acting Hand of the King and moved to new chambers. Tyrion rejects pain relief, fearing that his enemy will poison him. He calls for Podrick to summon his allies, Varys and Bronn. Varys visits Tyrion and regretfully tells him that although his leadership was key to saving the city he will not be recognized by King Joffrey. He also reports that Bronn has been relieved of his command and his tribesmen have taken their plunder and gone home. Varys offers a small consolation; he has brought Shae to see Tyrion. Varys leaves them alone and Shae removes Tyrion's bandages to reveal a scar marring his whole face. Tyrion is self-pitying; she angrily asserts her love for him and begs him to flee to Pentos with her. He says that standing up to the bad people in his life, out-talking and out-thinking them, is something that he is good at and enjoys. He chooses to stay in King's Landing and she agrees to remain with him.[22]

Tyrion meets with his father.
At a small council meeting, Tyrion is made the new Master of Coin by his father due to Lord Baelish's departure to the Eyrie to wed Lysa Arryn. Following the meeting, Tyrion, Podrick Payne and Ser Bronn visit the brothel where Tyrion provides the young Pod with a late gift, thanking him for his heroism on the battlefield at Blackwater. 

Tyrion and Ser Bronn learn from Podrick.
Leaving Podrick with his gift, the young squire later returns to Tyrion and Ser Bronn while they're drinking and discussing King's Landing's endless debt to the Bank of Braavos, and they are intrigued to learn how he managed to leave the brothel without having to pay the girls.[25]

Escorted by Varys to a dark room, Tyrion is finally told the story of how the eunuch was travelling through the Free Cities with a party of actors. It is revealed that he was castrated by a male sorcerer who spoke to the air and 'something' answered him. Varys then pries open the box in the room and reveals the Sorcerer who had done this terrible deed.[26]

Tyrion & Cersei ponder their forced marriages.
Cersei and Tyrion are evidently reluctant to consider these marriages, but as they do, Tyrion brings up the question of who employed Ser Mandon Moore to kill Tyrion. Cersei, of course, denies her involvement, but Tyrion is still suspicious.[28]

In result, Tyrion hesitantly marries Sansa. At the night of their wedding, Tyrion gets drunk and threatens Joffrey with castration after the latter commands him to carry out the bedding ceremony with Sansa. Tywin calms Joffrey and Tyrion takes Sansa to his bedchamber, where he tells her that his lord father has commanded him to consumate the marriage. As Sansa begins to disrobe, Tyrion refuses, insisting that he won't bed her until she wants him to, then he passes out drunk.[29]

Tyrion & Sansa at their wedding night.
Tyrion is wed to Sansa Stark.
Later, Cersei visits Tyrion and informs him that she won't be marrying Ser Loras. She also advises him to give Sansa children, to which Tyrion responds by asking her how happy is she with her children. Cersei admits that if it wasn't for her children, she would've killed herself, even for Joffrey. She ponders how happy he used to be in his infant years and how much he brought such joy in her life at that time, and that neither Joffrey nor anyone else can take that away from her.[30]

Tyrion awaits the arrival of Prince Doran Martell.
Tyrion greets them, but they inform him that Prince Doran's declining health prevents him from leaving Sunspear, and therefore he has sent his brother Prince Oberyn Martell to attend King Joffrey's wedding in his stead. They also explain that Oberyn went ahead and entered the city before dawn. Tyrion quickly puts together that he may be at one of Littlefinger's brothels. When Tyrion arrives, he finds Prince Oberyn stabbing a man's hand for singing The Rains Of Castamere. He is introduced to Oberyn's paramour, Ellaria Sand, and asks the Dornishman to talk in private. He asks him why he came to the capital and Oberyn tells him that he was invited to the royal wedding. Tyrion knows he's lying and asks for the honest truth. Oberyn remembers how Rhaegar Targaryen wed his sister Elia, and how his involvement with another woman started Robert's Rebellion. He tells Tyrion that the war ended with his father sacking the city while "The Mountain" (Ser Gregor Clegane) brutally murdered Elia's children, then raped and murdered her. He orders Tyrion to tell his father that he's here, and warns him that the Lannisters are not the only ones who pay their debts.[23]

Afterwards, he visits a deeply depressed Sansa and tries to comfort her by telling her that her brother and mother were good people. In tears, she tells him the grueling details of how they died. 

Oberyn warns Tyrion
Tyrion advises her to stay strong, as that is what her mother would want. Sansa leaves to go to the godswood and she tells Tyrion that she doesn't pray anymore, and instead goes because nobody is talking to her there. Distraught, he returns to his bedchamber, where Shae is waiting for him. She tries to pleasure him but Tyrion refuses. Shae questions him if he's really in love with Sansa. Tyrion says that he doesn't and this time, Shae asks him if he wants her out of the city. After getting no answer, she storms out of his bedchamber, and it is revealed that one of Cersei's spies heard the whole conversation.[23]

In the days following, Tyrion, along with other noblemen and women present in King's Landing, attend the breakfast on the morning of Joffrey and Margaery Tyrell's wedding. He meets Varys before arriving, who informs him of Cersei's spy and Cersei's consequent knowledge of Shae's presence, and warns him that Tywin will know shortly. Varys also warns him that he will not protect Tyrion or Shae against the former's father and sister out of regard for his own safety. At the breakfast, Tyrion observes Cersei's indication of Shae to her father as "the whore I told you about". Tywin subsequently requests that she be brought to the Tower of the Hand before the wedding. Tyrion then presents the groom a gift of a tome detailing the reigns of Daeron, the Young Dragon; Baelor the Blessed; Aegon the Unworthy and Daeron the Good. This is met with surprising approval and gratitude from the King until he is presented with a Valyrian steel sword by his grandfather and proceeds to demonstrate the blade's sharpness by destroying the book with it.[31]

After the breakfast, Tyrion meets with Shae in his quarters and shows uncharacteristic and confusing coldness towards her despite her gestures of affection. He terminates their "friendship" and informs her that she is to leave and go to live in Pentos, telling her that she must do so in order for him to uphold her marital vows to Sansa. 

Joffrey insults Tyrion at the former's wedding feast.
She deduces that he is afraid of his sister and father and expresses her desire to fight them alongside him. As she draws closer, Tyrion yells at her, calling her a whore, and states her unfitness to bear his children, in contrast to Sansa's. Bronn arrives to escort the sobbing Shae to the docks, resulting in her slapping him and storming off.[31]

At the wedding feast, Joffrey organizes some entertainment: five dwarfs mockingly re-enacting the War of the Five Kings. Tyrion, disgusted, instructs Podrick to pay each dwarf 20 gold dragons after the show. At the conclusion of the show, Joffrey suggests Tyrion fight the former's dwarf counterpart. Tyrion politely declines and sarcastically voices awe at Joffrey's skill and bravery at the Battle of the Blackwater and his desire to see them again. Insulted at the disrespectful undertone, Joffrey pours his wine over Tyrion's head in an immature show of superiority. He then instructs Tyrion to act as his cupbearer, before kicking the goblet under a table, forcing Tyrion to handle it several times. He finally orders him to kneel and Tyrion, obviously possessing no intention to do so, is saved by the arrival of the pigeon pie. He attempts to leave with Sansa, but is spotted by Joffrey, who commands him to remain and continue his duties as his cupbearer. Tyrion hands the king his goblet, who begins to choke after drinking from it. In his final moments, Joffrey points to Tyrion, apparently accusing him, as the latter inspects the goblet for poison, and he is seized and arrested by members of the Kingsguard on Cersei's orders.[31]

Tyrion is cross-examined by Prince Oberyn Martell, Lord Tywin Lannister, and Lord Mace Tyrell.
Just as Pod leaves he turns around and tells Tyrion about a man whom he didn't know offering him a knighthood if he testified against him. Tyrion knew that it wasn't a suggestion, and soon enough, they'll threaten him with something worse. Tyrion advises Pod to leave King's Landing, sending him off with a final farewell.[32]

Bronn refuses to be Tyrion's champion in trial by combat.
Tyrion, having just killed Shae.
On the day of the trial by combat, Jaime visits Tyrion in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Lannister and his habit of smashing beetles with rocks for no reason. Tyrion says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Jaime says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Tyrion good luck. 

Tyrion kills his father.
Varys and Tyrion in Pentos.
With the aid of Varys, Tyrion is brought to the home of Illyrio Mopatis in Pentos. Varys attempts to persuade Tyrion to assist in his goal to restore House Targaryen to the Iron Throne, but Tyrion simply wishes to drink himself to death after all that he has been through.

Later, Tyrion questions Varys on his motives of setting him free. Varys reveals his brother Jaime had asked him to and that he did for the benefit of the Seven Kingdoms. Varys then states that his goal was to bring peace and prosperity upon the kingdoms where those without power would never be prey to those who do; Tyrion merely states in a jaded tone that the former will always become prey to the latter, which is how the powerful become and stay that way in the first place. The two discuss that the Seven Kingdoms needs a ruler stronger than Tommen, but gentler than Stannis. Tyrion wishes Varys luck on trying to find the right man, but Varys makes Tyrion one final offer. Varys tells him that he can simply drink himself to death here in Pentos, or ride with him to Meereen to meet Daenerys Targaryen. After a moment, Tyrion agrees.[38]

Tyrion and Varys depart Pentos in a large carriage. Tyrion remains despondent, and as he promised, he is continuing to drink himself into a stupor. Varys explains that they are travelling to Meereen by way of Volantis. 

Tyrion and Varys discuss on their way to Meereen.
Varys points out that Tyrion was an effective ruler when he was acting Hand of the King, and that each of them were outsiders due to their deformities (a eunuch and a dwarf). They enjoyed accumulating power, he says, but they also wall themselves off from other people, like hiding inside of a large carriage as they are now - but deep down they were never satisfied being separate from society. Tyrion is unmoved from his depression, and continues to insist that he's tired of being confined in a box of some sort. Varys, however, again warns him that he must remain hidden and it is unsafe to be seen publicly: Cersei has promised a lordship to any man who brings her his head. Tyrion scoffs and rhetorically asks if Cersei is going to kill every dwarf in the world in the hope of eventually catching him.[39]

After days of confinement in the carriage, an impatient Tyrion eventually opts to get through Volantis on foot. When they arrive in the city, Varys reluctantly agrees to it, though only for a little while. They visit a brothel where they see a prostitute cosplaying as Daenerys. However, Tyrion goes elsewhere to relieve himself, and in the process, he is caught and abducted by Jorah Mormont, who intends to take him to "the Queen".[40]

Tyrion is captured by Jorah on a brothel in Volantis.
Now at the mercy of his captor, Tyrion is thrown into a stolen boat by Jorah and they set sail for Meereen. En route, Tyrion pesters Jorah with muffled whining until he relents and removes Tyrion's gag. Tyrion notices that they are traveling east and not west towards Cersei in King's Landing. Jorah reveals that he is taking Tyrion to the queen he serves, Daenerys Targaryen. Tyrion is pleasantly surprised and tries to convince Jorah that they are on the same side since he was traveling to meet Daenerys anyway. He accurately deduces who Jorah is by his appearance and equipment, and correctly assumes that Jorah must have been banished by Daenerys because she discovered that he was spying on her for Varys. Tyrion mockingly asks Jorah if he really believes that he will earn a pardon for simply delivering him to Daenerys, believing the opposite outcome just as likely. Fed up with his captive, Jorah strikes Tyrion across the face to keep him quiet.[41]

Tyrion and Jorah eventually reach the ruins of Old Valyria, hoping to pass through undetected by other ships. As they approach, they notice, to their amazement, Drogon flying overhead, though the beast does not notice them. 

Tyrion and Jorah sail through the ruins of Valyria.
They are suddenly attacked by Stone Men, men whose greyscale infection has reached its pinnacle and transformed them into feral monsters. During the fight, Tyrion falls overboard and dragged under by a stone man, but he is rescued by Jorah and they make it to a beach, where Tyrion regains consciousness. Jorah finally frees Tyrion from his binds and notices that none of the stone men managed to touch him. Tyrion thanks Jorah for saving his life, and they decide to seek out a fishing village to acquire another boat, or walk the rest of the way to Meereen. Jorah tells Tyrion to get some rest as he goes for firewood, but unbeknownst to Tyrion, Jorah has been infected with greyscale.[42]

Tyrion tells Jorah about his father's death.
Tyrion and Jorah continue their quest to Meereen on foot. Tyrion openly questions Jorah's motives, and when Jorah claims that he came to believe in Daenerys when he saw her emerge from the fire unharmed with the dragon hatchlings, Tyrion is convinced, but still expresses doubt as to whether or not Daenerys will be a good ruler, given that her family was known for succumbing to madness due to their compound inbreeding, particularly her father, whom many still call the Mad King. However, they are spotted and captured by slavers bound for Volantis. The lead slaver, Malko, deems Tyrion as useless and orders his throat cut and his penis removed to be sold to a cock merchant (as he believes dwarf cocks bring good luck). Tyrion, however, convinces them to do it when they have reached the cock merchant, buying himself some time, and when Malko mentions that Daenerys has re-opened the fighting pits in Meereen, Tyrion successfully convinces Malko to take them to Meereen in order to put Jorah, who is a renowned Westerosi fighter, in the fighting pits and make them rich.[43]

On the outskirts of Meereen, after Jorah is sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz, Tyrion attempts to convince Yezzan to buy him as well, and viciously beats his captor with his own chain to prove his worth. Yezzan relents and buys Tyrion, but mostly for his comedic value. They are taken to Daznak's pit, a small fighting pit, which will celebrate the opening of the games. When they hear that Daenerys is present, Jorah immediately enters the fight in the arena, while Tyrion struggles to cut his chain until a guard comes and does it for him. Tyrion enters the arena just as Jorah is being taken away (since Daenerys still hasn't forgiven him), and reveals himself as Jorah's "gift". He introduces himself as Tyrion Lannister, and meets Daenerys face-to-face at last.[44]

Both Tyrion and Jorah are brought before Daenerys inside the Great Pyramid. Daenerys initially advocates executing Tyrion as revenge against the Lannisters for betraying her family, but Tyrion points out that he killed his mother in childbirth and shot his father in the heart before fleeing. 

Tyrion and Daenerys discussing matters of family and politics
She asks him advice on what to do with Jorah. Tyrion persuades her to spare him, but suggests banishing him again, since he did effectively betray her trust. Later, while having wine, Tyrion and Daenerys agree that they both had cruel fathers, and Tyrion promises to explain why he killed Tywin someday, should she decide to spare him. Tyrion admits that though he believes Daenerys is no better than her father, he admits that he travelled to Meereen because Varys convinced him that she may very well be the best monarch for the Seven Kingdoms. He believes that Varys was correct in his assessment, and notes that Varys is the only person he can trust, aside from his brother Jaime. The mention of Jaime, who killed her father, prompts Daenerys to suggest executing Tyrion, but Tyrion reacts with indifference, claiming that he was ready to drink himself to death in Pentos and still welcomes death if Daenerys prefers it, given the rate of how his own life had become as of late.

Daenerys ultimately decides not to kill or banish Tyrion, but to take him as an advisor on how to reclaim the Iron Throne. Tyrion suggests that Daenerys stay in Meereen, as she may do more good in Essos than in Westeros. Daenerys assures Tyrion that she will stay where she is presently to ensure that the slave trade stays broken but states that Essos is not her home. Tyrion counters that no one will support her in Westeros, but Daenerys somewhat idealistically declares that the common people will support her. 

Tyrion is left struck with awe as Daenerys escapes the pit on her dragon.
Tyrion generously assumes that this will happen (which it generally doesn't), but then he reminds Daenerys that Meereen has been in a state of chaos without the combined support of the Great Masters and the smallfolk, and extends this to Westeros and its Great Houses. He notes that Houses Targaryen and Stark are effectively dead or scattered due to the combined actions of their "two terrible fathers". Neither House Lannister nor House Baratheon of Dragonstone will ever support her claim in light of their histories with the Targaryens. Tyrion says that leaves House Tyrell, who originally sided with the Crown in Robert's Rebellion and might be willing to help her due to Cersei's recent schemes against them, but that it still isn't enough. Daenerys stubbornly likens the Great Houses, including her own House Targaryen, to spokes on a wheel: one on top of the others, and on and on, crushing the commoners beneath them in their struggle for supremacy. Tyrion sarcastically warns that others have dreamt of stopping the wheel, but Daenerys clarifies that she isn't planning to stop the wheel, she intends to break it.[45]

Tyrion attends the opening of the Great Games in Daznak's Pit along with Daenerys, Hizdahr zo Loraq, Daario Naharis and Missandei. He playfully banters with Hizdahr and Daario about which fighters will win owing to what advantages, such as strength or speed, and after Hizdahr lectures Daenerys about the requisitions of holding onto power, Tyrion coldly quips that Tywin would have liked him. In the second round of the games, Jorah appears as one of the combatants and is almost killed. Tyrion urges Daenerys to stop the games before Jorah is killed, but he is saved by another fighter. Suddenly, a surprise attack by the Sons of the Harpy devastates the fighting pit. Tyrion saves Missandei by killing one of the Sons and he runs with Daenerys and the others into the center of the fighting pit, where they are surrounded. He later watches in obvious shock when Drogon enters the pit and sets several Sons ablaze. When Daenerys flies off on Drogon's back, Tyrion is left struck with awe as he watches her fly through the sky on dragon back.[46]

In the aftermath, Tyrion sits in the throne room with Daario and Jorah. Grey Worm recovers and Missandei introduces him to Tyrion. Tyrion concludes that since Drogon flew North, he and Daario must head in that direction if they are to find Daenerys, getting into an argument with Jorah over his status as a Lannister and Jorah having betrayed and been exiled twice by Daenerys. 

Tyrion and Varys watch over Meereen
Daario breaks up the argument, convincing Tyrion to trust Jorah and allow him to come, since he did save Daenerys in the fighting pit, but at the same time questions Tyrion's skills in tracking and combat and deeming him unfit to join in such a dangerous mission. Instead, Daario advises Tyrion to stay in Meereen and rule on Daenerys's behalf, knowing of his political skills from his time as Hand of the King, with Grey Worm enforcing Tyrion's rule with the Unsullied and Missandei as interpreter, wishing him luck on keeping the city together.

Later on, Tyrion, from atop the pyramid, watches Daario and Jorah depart Meereen to find Daenerys. He is joined by Varys, who playfully teases him for "abandoning" him and admits he found him through his little birds. Varys congratulates Tyrion for winning Daenerys's favor without him. Varys alludes to the political instability in Meereen, and the opportunities it presents for Tyrion. Through their bantering, they vow to help each other hold Meereen together. Tyrion then wholeheartedly admits that he missed Varys.[47]

Tyrion and Varys stroll the streets of Meereen.
In an effort to find the Sons of the Harpy, Tyrion and Varys explore the streets of Meereen disguised as merchants, believing they can do more at street level than inside the Great Pyramid. Upon meeting a woman and her baby, Tyrion offers some money to feed her child. Due to his bad Valyrian, however, she refuses, believing Tyrion intends to eat her baby until Varys corrects her. While pondering their predicament and what Daenerys' absence means to the people of Meereen, they witness Zanrush preaching to some of the former slaves to fight for their own freedom instead of relying on Daenerys. After surmising that the Harpies have a leader, Tyrion and Varys encounter several citizens running away from something. Investigating the disturbance, they are shocked to find that the Sons of the Harpy have burned every ship in the harbor.[48]

Tyrion decides to visit Viserion and Rheagal.
Later, in the Great Pyramid, Tyrion learns that the Unsullied have yet to find the person responsible for burning the Meereenese fleet, Astapor and Yunkai have fallen back into the slave trade and Daenerys' remaining dragons haven't been eating since their mother left. Tyrion guesses that they are morose because they are in captivity. When Missandei asks how he knows this, he replies, "That's what I do. I drink and I know things". Tyrion decides to meet the dragons and free them, knowing they will be better off this way. 

Accompanied by Varys, Tyrion ventures alone into the catacombs and encounters Viserion and Rhaegal for the first time. Despite their initial hostility towards him, Tyrion remains calm, assuring them he is a friend of Daenerys and only wants to help. He manages to earn their trust and unshackle them, all the while telling them the story of how he wanted a dragon for his nameday when asked by his uncle what he'd like for a gift, only to be disappointed by uproarious laughter from his family and the truth from his father, that they'd been extinct for a century. After the dragons depart, Tyrion quickly exits the pit with Varys, asking the eunuch to punch him 'in the face' the next time he has a crazy idea.[49]

Later, while waiting for Varys as he turns one of the Sons of the Harpy's allies to their cause, Tyrion tries to pass the time with Missandei and Grey Worm by engaging in small talk and playing one of his drinking games, without success. Once Varys arrives, Tyrion learns that the Masters of Yunkai, Astapor and Volantis are collectively funding the Sons of the Harpy. In order to intimidate the Masters into backing down, Tyrion asks Varys to arrange a meeting with them.[50]

Tyrion discusses negotiations with the slave masters.
Tyrion and his entourage are later confronted by a group of former slaves in the Meereen throne room. A freedman demands to know when Daenerys will return, while another is appalled at the idea of Tyrion negotiating with slave traders. Tyrion insists he is doing his best to rule the city in her absence while they wait. Instead, the freedmen refuse to listen to the foreign dwarf and look to Grey Worm and Missandei for reassurance. Despite their misgivings, they both publicly back Tyrion in front of the freedmen.

In private, Tyrion assures Missandei and Grey Worm that he is serving Daenerys' interest by taking advantage of the Masters' own arrogance, but that he cannot end slavery overnight. Grey Worm, however, warns Tyrion that the slavers cannot be reasoned with and will most likely take advantage of him instead, since they already do it for a living.[51]

Tyrion acquires religious support.
Nevertheless, the situation in Meereen begins to stabilize, with almost no incidents involving the Freedmen or Sons of the Harpy, though Tyrion reminds them they need to convince the Meereenese that everything has been done with Daenerys' blessing, as the Masters could use Tyrion and Varys' foreign status against them to fully reclaim Slaver's Bay. To accomplish this, Tyrion invites Kinvara, High Priestess of the Red Temple of Volantis, to negotiate spreading the word of Daenerys's achievements. To Tyrion's surprise, Kinvara appears to fully agree with supporting Tyrion's goals, believing that Daenerys is The Prince That Was Promised. Varys is more skeptical, however, being suspicious of any practitioners of magic, and points out that Melisandre had already promised the same to Stannis Baratheon, who was ultimately defeated and killed. Kinvara counters that the Lord of Light's human followers occasionally make mistakes, then shuts him down with knowledge of his castration. Kinvara then assures Tyrion that she will send the preachers and priests best suited to the task at hand.[52]

Meanwhile, in Braavos, Arya Stark watches a play mocking the War of the Five Kings, including a dwarf actor in the role of Tyrion. She is visibly uncomfortable when "Tyrion" fondles an actress playing Sansa.[52]

Tyrion bids Varys farewell.
When the Red Priests arrive at Meereen to preach about Daenerys, Tyrion and Varys are debating if their presence can maintain order throughout the city while walking through the markets. Afterwards, Varys tells Tyrion that he is leaving on a secret expedition because Daenerys will need more allies, before Tyrion proclaims to Varys that he is the most famous dwarf in the world.[53]

In the Great Pyramid, Tyrion wishes to celebrate with Missandei and Grey Worm for the resurgence of Meereen and to honour their queen. Their celebration is cut short when a large fleet of slaver ships lay siege to the city. As the slavers continue to bombard Meereen, Tyrion allows Grey Worm to assume command. Grey Worm proposes that the Unsullied must not go to the beach, preferring to wait until the slavers enter the Great Pyramid. At that moment, they hear movement on the roof. When they go to investigate, they discover that Daenerys has returned on her dragon Drogon.[53]

The following day, Tyrion explains the events in Meereen during her absence to Daenerys. Despite the fact that they are under siege by the Masters' fleet, he believes that his success in bringing about a resurgence of a slaveless Meereen is the reason for their attack, because the Masters could not let such an example succeed for fear that their slaves could rise up. Daenerys declares that she will destroy the Masters' armies, kill them all, and destroy their cities. Tyrion disapproves and explains the similarities between this plan and the one her father had for King's Landing when the Lannisters were at his door. Instead, he proposes a different solution.

Tyrion joins Daenerys in negotiations .
Accompanied by Grey Worm and Missandei, Tyrion and Daenerys meet with the slave masters Razdal, Yezzan, and Belicho to parley. Believing victory is near, the slave masters demand that Daenerys and Tyrion surrender Missandei and the Unsullied to their masters, and her three dragons to be slaughtered before leaving Slaver's Bay. Dany rejects their terms and orders Drogon, Viserion, and Rhaegal to burn the slavers' fleet. As Dany leads the counterattack on the back of Drogon, Tyrion chastises the slave masters for breaking his pact and demands that they surrender one of their own to be executed as punishment. When Razdal and Belicho try to offer up Yezzan, Tyrion orders Grey Worm to kill the two masters. However, he spares Yezzan to spread word of Dany's power. Meanwhile, Dany's Dothraki horde wipes out the resurgent Sons of the Harpy.

After the battle, Tyrion is present at the Great Pyramid while Dany holds an audience with Yara and Theon Greyjoy, who have just arrived in Mereen with most of the Iron Fleet. Knowing Theon, Tyrion chides him for mocking his height back at Winterfell and for the alleged murders of Bran and Rickon Stark. A penitent Theon reiterates that he has paid for his crimes though Tyrion is incredulous given that Theon is standing there. Yara offers to provide Daenerys with a hundred ships if she helps them to defeat her uncle Euron Greyjoy and recognizes the independence of the Iron Islands. Tyrion protests that if the Iron Islands gain independence, then the rest of the Kingdoms will likely make that demand as well; Dany states that they are welcome to try, and agrees to Yara's terms, provided that the Ironborn end all reaving and piracy of the mainland. When Yara begrudgingly accepts, Tyrion indicates his approval of the alliance, as Daenerys has negotiated a strong position for herself.[54]

Daenerys makes Tyrion her Hand.
In preparation for the invasion of Westeros and entering its politics, Tyrion advises Daenerys to end her relationship with Daario and leave him Mereen with the rest of the Second Sons, which she does. Tyrion attempts to console her on her loss of the relationship but admits he is not good at consoling. She agrees but she says she is more bothered that it was so easy for her to let Daario go than by the actual loss of the relationship. Tyrion goes on to admit that for years he has believed in nothing but, in the months in her service, he has come to believe in Daenerys and that he is ready to live again. Touched, Daenerys presents him with a replica of the Hand's brooch and formally names him Hand of the Queen. Moved to near-tears, Tyrion kneels before her. Some time later, Tyrion stands with Daenerys on the flagship of her massive armada, looking ahead to returning to Westeros.[55]

Tyrion arrives on Dragonstone.
Grey Worm announces the arrival of Melisandre, who brings them news of events in the North and Jon Snow's coronation as King, to Tyrion's surprise. Although somewhat skeptical of Melisandre's prophecies, Tyrion admits that he liked and trusted Jon's character when they traveled to the Wall together, and encourages Daenerys to make an alliance with him.[57]

Tyrion reveals his plans to Daenerys and her council.
Tyrion later joins Daenerys for a council of war with Missandei, Varys, Grey Worm, Olenna Tyrell, the Greyjoy siblings and Ellaria Sand. Tyrion initially clashes with Ellaria, as he knows she poisoned his niece Myrcella and she blames him indirectly for Oberyn's death. After Daenerys stops their argument, Tyrion helps her explain their plan to invade Westeros: as Cersei is trying to rally the Lords to defend King's Landing against a foreign army, Daenerys' Unsullied and Dothraki will not attack the city or they will "prove her point". Instead, the Greyjoy fleet will ferry the Dornish army north to lay siege to King's Landing alongside the Tyrell forces, trapping Cersei and most of her army in the capitol and starving them out. Meanwhile, Tyrion plans to have the Unsullied sail around Westeros and capture Casterly Rock, the true seat of House Lannister's power. Ellaria, Yara Greyjoy and Olenna agree to follow this plan. All does not go as planned, however; on their way to Dorne, Yara's fleet is decimated by her uncle Euron's Iron Fleet, and both she and Ellaria are captured.[57]

Tyrion is later seen meeting with Jon Snow, Davos Seaworth, and their men, as they arrive in a small boat onto the shores of Dragonstone. Tyrion teases Jon, calling him "the bastard of Winterfell", to which Jon retorts, calling Tyrion "the dwarf of Casterly Rock". They greet each other warmly and seem to be happy to see each other again, exchanging friendly barbs back and forth. Jon and his party are then forced to surrender their weapons, and they reluctantly do so. Then, as the party is escorted towards the castle, a group of Daenerys' soldiers whisk away their boat. Jon and Davos exchange looks of concern at this.[58]

Tyrion escorts the Northern party to Daenerys.
As they make their way up the castle steps, Jon and Tyrion have a conversation about how they got to their respective positions, and how Jon's followers must think he's crazy for going to Dragonstone. Tyrion concurs, stating that if he were Jon's advisor, he would have advised against it, and cites that going south doesn't usually work out well for the Starks, to which Jon swiftly replies that he is not a Stark. They are then suddenly interrupted when Drogon swoops down towards them, and everyone is forced to duck for cover. Jon takes a moment to recover from the sudden shock, as the party continues on their journey towards the castle.[58]

As they reach the throne room, Jon and Davos begin to speak with Daenerys as Tyrion watches by her side. The meeting is very tense as both sides refuse to submit to the other's demands. Tyrion plays an important moderating role by vouching for Jon's integrity and character, helping to soften Daenerys' attitude towards the insistent and unbowing King in the North. As the meeting is about to end on an unfavorable note, Tyrion urges Jon to simply bend the knee, reasoning that if Westeros is doomed by the threat of White Walkers, it makes no difference who he supports for the Iron Throne, especially if it will help him further his goals.[58]

Tyrion speaks with Jon in private.
The meeting is interrupted by Varys who delivers news about their decimated Greyjoy fleet. Dany allows Jon and Davos to stay as "guests" until they can reach a proper agreement. Later, Tyrion meets with Jon on the grounds of Dragonstone. Jon is unhappy that he is a prisoner while the Night King and White Walkers still pose a threat. Tyrion encourages a despondent Jon not to give up and confides that he trusts the word of Jon and Jeor Mormont. Tyrion also vouches for his Queen and reassures Jon that she is not like her father. Tyrion also asks Jon if there is something he can do to help. Jon tells Tyrion about the vein of dragonglass beneath Dragonstone.[58]

Tyrion manages to convince a skeptical Dany to allow Jon to mine the dragon glass on the pretext that it will win her an ally. Dany grants Jon permission to mine the dragon glass and outfits him with the manpower and equipment to do so. At the Chamber of the Painted Table, Tyrion along with Varys and Missandei discuss Euron Greyjoy's destruction of Yara's fleet. Tyrion and Missandei argue against Daenerys' plan to lead her dragons on a mission to hunt and destroy Euron's fleet, opining that she faces the prospect of death. Tyrion then elaborates his plan to seize Casterly Rock using an underground tunnel. Grey Worm uses this tunnel to capture Casterly Rock, only to discover that the Lannisters have withdrawn the bulk of their forces. Euron's Iron Fleet attacks the Targaryen ships, trapping the Unsullied at Casterly Rock.[58]

Tyrion watches as Jaime is almost killed.
After the failure at Highgarden, Tyrion is confronted by Daenerys about his strategy and is present when she attacks the Lannister forces outside King's Landing during the Battle of the Goldroad. Tyrion watches in horror as Jaime foolishly charges at Daenerys on the battlefield and nearly incinerated by Drogon.[59]

Tyrion stands by Daenerys's side during her judgment over the Lannister and Tarly ranks.
In the aftermath of the battle, Tyrion examines the damage on the battlefield and is present when Daenerys offers the surviving Lannister and Tarly men a choice: kneel or die. When Randyll Tarly refuses, Tyrion is quick to point out Randyll's newfound loyalty to Cersei, despite her role in annihilating House Tyrell. Randyll in turn denounces Tyrion and his loyalty to Daenerys, viewing her as a foreign invader. Despite Tyrion's insistence that Randyll and Dickon Tarly be imprisoned or sent to the Wall, Daenerys ignores his advice, explaining that they already made their choice, and orders Drogon to burn them alive.

Back at Dragonstone, Tyrion discusses the aftermath of the battle with Varys. Though confident that Daenerys is not her father, Varys suggests that Tyrion find a way to make her listen to his advice. When Tyrion notices a message in his hand, Varys says that it is for Jon.

Tyrion discusses the Battle of the Goldroad with Varys.
At Daenerys' subsequent council meeting, Tyrion suggests capturing a Wight north of the Wall and bringing it back to Cersei as proof of their true common enemy. To convince Cersei to stand down, however, he must first appeal to Jaime. Davos agrees to smuggle Tyrion into King's Landing, but warns him of the consequences should the Gold Cloaks recognize him.

Arriving at a secluded beach close to the Red Keep, Tyrion remarks that he murdered his own father the last time he was in King's Landing, with Davos remarking that Tyrion murdered his son the last time he visited the city. With time short, Tyrion makes his way inside.

Tyrion reunites with Jaime.
In the cellar beneath the Red Keep, Bronn arranges the meeting in the guise of a secret sparring session. Tyrion commends Jaime for outsmarting him at the siege of Casterly Rock, then does his best to explain his true motivations for murdering their father. When Jaime demands to know the real reason for the meeting, Tyrion explains that though Daenerys' victory is inevitable, she is genuinely nothing like her father, and has a more important request for Cersei.

Upon returning to the beach, Tyrion spots two Gold Cloaks near Davos's boat, and is spotted in return. Before the guards can arrest him, however, Davos' companion quickly dispatches them. After Tyrion is introduced to Gendry, the three make their escape.

Tyrion later reunites with Jorah Mormont, his former travelling companion, and reminisces over their journey to Meereen, after which Tyrion gives Jorah the coin used to pay for him by Yezzan, hoping it will bring him luck for the Wight Hunt.

Tyrion says Jon Snow is in love with Daenerys Targaryen
Later, he and Daenerys discuss heroism, Daenerys telling him he is no hero. Tyrion disagrees, and tries to explain how he received his scar by charging through the Mud Gate. Daenerys interrupts him, stating she doesn't want him to be a hero, as they do stupid things and end up dead. She names Drogo, Daario Naharis, Jorah Mormont and Jon Snow as examples, which Tyrion notes, stating all four of these men fell in love with her. Daenerys says Jon Snow doesn't love her, to which Tyrion responds sarcastically he only stares at her longingly because he is hopeful for a succesful military alliance. When Daenerys calls Jon too little for her, Tyrion says that as far as heroes go, he is quite little. Daenerys then says she knows Tyrion is brave, as she wouldn't have chosen a coward as her hand.

Tyrion discusses children with Daenerys
Daenerys changes the subject, by saying if the Wight Hunt goes well, she'll finally get to meet Cersei, who wants to kill her. Tyrion notes that she would probably torture her first. He vows that if they go to the capital, they will go with the full capacity of their forces, and if someone even touches her, they'll burn the city to the ground. Daenerys says she's probably planning a trap, but Tyrion notes that Cersei is probably thinking the very same thing about Daenerys. When Daenerys asks him if they should lay a trap, Tyrion says it would be better to build a new world without mass murder. Daenerys remarks that no war was won without it, which Tyrion agrees but states that fear alone isn't the right way of ruling. When Dany says Aegon Targaryen got quite a long way with fear, Tyrion reminds her of her promise of breaking the wheel, which Aegon built. Tyrion then speaks about his meeting with Jaime, where he promised to keep the Lannister's forces in check if Tyrion makes sure Daenerys doesn't lose her temper. Daenerys responds she does not lose her temper, to which Tyrion replies she lost it when she killed the Tarlys. She notes that Tyrion takes his family's side once again. Tyrion says he has to, as the only way to beat them is to think like them. He states that he wants to serve Daenerys for the long term, and wants to make sure that, after she is Queen and broken the wheel, it stays broken after her death. He states that Daenerys once said she believes she can't have children, but that there are other ways to name an heir. Daenerys says he's been thinking of her death for quite a while, and angrily reminds him they lost Dorne and Highgarden because of his lack of planning for the short term. Tyrion remains silent as Daenerys says they will discuss this further after she is Queen.

Tyrion tries to stop Daenerys from going to The Wall
When Daenerys receives a letter from Gendry, asking for help with the Wight Hunt gone wrong, Tyrion tries to stop her from going to the Wall with her dragons, saying she is the most important person in the world, and she can't go to the most dangerous place in the world. He claims the group knew the risk when they left, and Daenerys shouldn't try to save them. When she steps on Drogon, she asks him what he would have her do. Tyrion says that doing nothing is the hardest thing to do, but if she dies, everything and everyone would be lost. Daenerys reminds him he told her to do nothing once, and having learned the hard way, she won't do nothing again. Tyrion looks at her as she and her dragons dive off the cliff, heading for the wall.[60]

Tyrion presents the Great War to Cersei.
After Cersei agrees to a summit in the Dragonpit at King's Landing, Tyrion and Jon arrive in the capitol with their various allies, while the Unsullied and the Dothraki amass outside the city walls to attack in case the truce gets broken. When Cersei arrives, she glares hatefully at Tyrion and quickly grows impatient that Daenerys has not come with him - only for Daenerys herself to make a dramatic arrival on dragonback moments later. Tyrion opens the negotiations, but is quickly interrupted by Euron Greyjoy, who mocks him and threatens Theon until Jaime and Cersei shut him down. Tyrion points out that if all they wanted to do was fight each other to the death, they would never have agreed to this meeting. Jon Snow then reveals the threat posed by the Night King and the Army of the Dead. Although Daenerys promises to uphold a truce with the Lannisters until the Night King has been dealt with, Cersei dismisses their claim concerning the Army of the Dead, saying they are simply attempting to strengthen their position while she is standing down. Tyrion replies that they have something to show her, and Sandor Clegane brings out the wight that was captured north of the Wall. Shaken by what she sees, Cersei at first seems willing to accept a truce, but only if Jon Snow agrees to have the North remain neutral and support neither Queen. To Tyrion's dismay, Jon replies that he cannot do so, as he has already declared for Daenerys. In response, Cersei leaves the summit. Furious, Tyrion rebukes Jon for not being able to make a small lie in order to secure them a political and military advantage. He declares that he will go and speak with Cersei alone - despite Daenerys's protests that she will have him murdered - or else they will be right back where they started.

Tyrion is escorted into the Tower of the Hand by Gregor Clegane; he meets Jaime outside, who claims he tried to reason with Cersei until she threw him out. Tyrion then meets Cersei inside the same office both he and their father once occupied, as Hand of the King. Cersei accuses him of having tried to bring down House Lannister from the very beginning. Although she finally acknowledges that Tyrion did not kill Joffrey, she reminds him that he did kill their father, and holds him responsible for the deaths of her other children, as she believed no one would have touched Tommen or Myrcella while Tywin was alive. Tyrion truthfully claims he was unaware of Jon's bending the knee to Daenerys and expresses sincere regret for the deaths of his nephew and niece, but Cersei does not care, claiming he destroyed their House's future regardless of his intentions. Angered, Tyrion tries to goad her into having him killed, if she blames him for everything that has befallen her. Cersei looks ready to give the order to Ser Gregor, but reluctantly relents. Tyrion wonders why she allowed him to arrange the peace negotiations in the first place if she didn't expect anything to happen; Cersei turns the question back at him, wondering why he supports Daenerys as loyally as he does. Cersei dismisses Tyrion's assertions that Daenerys is better at controlling her violent impulses than she is. She expresses the horror she felt when she saw the wight, and her desire to keep her loved ones safe from them at any cost. From this and her gestures, Tyrion correctly deduces that she is pregnant with another incestuous child by Jaime.

Tyrion then returns to his allies at the Dragonpit, where they are joined shortly after by his brother and sister. Cersei claims she will agree to the truce and send the Lannister forces north to fight alongside the Starks and the Targaryens.

After a discussion at Dragonstone over their journey to the North, Tyrion accompanies his Queen and Jon Snow aboard a ship that will take them to White Harbor. On the voyage, Tyrion witnesses Daenerys allowing Jon into her cabin, where the two of them give in to their mutual attraction and engage in a sexual encounter. Concerned with the possible political consequences for his Queen, Tyrion walks away.[61]

Joffrey Baratheon 

Myrcella Baratheon 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Tyrion is in his mid-twenties when the events of the series begin, whereas in the show his age is not mentioned. However, the age gap between him and his siblings is smaller: in the books Tyrion was born when Cersei and Jaime were 10, while in the show, they were 4. This was likely to accommodate the actors: Peter Dinklage is four years older than Lena Headey and one year older than Nikolaj Coster-Waldau.

As well as being a dwarf, Tyrion is misshapen and often described as ugly and having eyes of two different colors, one green and one black. He is described as having a huge disproportionate head and an pronounced ungainly waddle when he walks. His hair is lank and very pale, but when he lets his beard grow in it comes in as a mixture of blonde and black hairs. In the beginning of the TV series, actor Peter Dinklage insisted on not having a beard, because he felt that bearded dwarves are a fantasy stereotype, though he agreed to grow a beard from the fifth season onwards.

Tysha was reported to be the daughter of a crofter rather than a wheelwright (this may have been for the benefit of North American audiences who are less likely to know what a crofter is) and the marriage took place when he was only 13 years old. He bought them a little cottage where they lived as man and wife for their two week marriage, before his father had it annulled. Tywin not only had 50 guards rape her, but then ordered Tyrion to have sex with her as well, giving her a gold piece as a Lannister is worth more.

At the Battle of the Green Fork, Tyrion is not knocked out by his own men. In fact he leads with distinction, holding the line under great adversity. Later when he tells his father that the plan to kill him by putting him in the vanguard (under the command of Ser Gregor Clegane) failed, Tyrion learns that his father had put him there hoping that an inexperienced Tyrion with undisciplined hill tribesmen would break and run to be pursued into a trap by the Stark forces. Tyrion holding the line had ruined the plan. It is a combination of this along with his reading of the situation they face in the war, and the fact that Jaime Lannister may not be retrievable, that makes Tywin decide to make use of Tyrion as acting Hand. Tyrion realizes that Tywin is preparing for the worst, that the Starks might well kill Jaime as revenge for Eddard's murder, so he is finally giving Tyrion real power.

When Tyrion relieves Janos Slynt of command of the Gold cloaks it is a man named Ser Jacelyn Bywater or "Ironhand" who becomes their new commander, not Bronn. It is Varys, not Tyrion, who comes up with the suggestion to send Joffrey some prostitutes to soften his temper, but the results are not shown. Tyrion does not send Petyr Baelish to Catelyn Stark at Renly's camp with Lord Eddard's bones and an offer for the release of Jaime Lannister (though Baelish is sent to treat with the Tyrells after Renly's death). The bones are sent with Cleos Frey (replaced by Alton Lannister in the series) to Riverrun along with unacceptable peace terms and a force of 100 Lannister soldiers that hide four men Tyrion has sent to break Ser Jaime out, an escape attempt that fails. Shae is not brought to the Tower of the Hand, instead she is put in a manse that Tyrion can approach by using a tunnel from under a brothel. The most important of the defenses for the city that Tyrion builds is a huge chain that stretches across the whole of Blackwater Rush, to be raised after Stannis' fleet enters to trap them inside with the wildfire.

In the book's version of the Battle of Blackwater, Tyrion has almost his entire nose cut off by Ser Mandon Moore's sword swipe; the TV series only included the deep scar across his face (which as also present in the books). As Peter Dinklage explained, "I know, for fans of the books, that Tyrion loses his nose in the battle. But it would be next to impossible and very expensive to do that on television, and I would be wearing a green sock [on my nose, to digitally remove it with greenscreen], I think, for the next however many years, which I don't know how that would be on set. But yeah, the digital artist would have a lot of work on their hands. So I think we came up with a really good solution."[62]

In the official blooper reel for Season 4, when "action" is shouted and a stage hand closes the clapperboard right in front of Dinklage's face, he started jokingly pretending that board was held too close and cut his nose off.[63]

In A Storm of Swords, when Joffrey is poisoned, Cersei is quick to blame Tyrion and have him put on a farcical show trial, which leads him to demand a trial by combat. As this occurs around the same time Jaime returns to the capital, Tyrion confers with his uncle Kevan while in custody, and it is Kevan who persuades Tywin to spare Tyrion and send him to the Night's Watch. When Oberyn Martell is killed and Tyrion is sentenced to death, he is freed by Jaime, who goes on to reveal that his marriage to Tysha was actually a proper marriage and he had been forced by Tywin to make it look like it had been staged. Enraged at such a betrayal, Tyrion vows revenge on Jaime, Cersei and Tywin, spitefully but falsely telling Jaime that he killed Joffrey, and it is for this reason that he confronts and kills Shae and then Tywin while he is on the privy (in the television series, he kills Tywin for Shae, which left some fans confused as to why Tyrion would kill his own father for a woman who committed the ultimate betrayal against him and who he himself had just killed). His story ends just after he kills Tywin, and unlike the end of the fourth season, it is left unrevealed if he escaped Westeros or not.

Tyrion does not appear in the fourth book, A Feast for Crows, and his whereabouts are not revealed, though he is mentioned several times, particularly due to Cersei having placed a bounty on his head, and also Cersei's increasing paranoia that Tyrion is still hiding somewhere in the Red Keep, waiting for the right moment to strike and kill her. Tyrion's escape also fuels Cersei's contempt of House Tyrell: a Tyrell coin is found in the cell of an undergaoler named Rugen (who is actually Varys in disguise), leading Cersei to believe that the Tyrells, particularly Margaery, might have conspired with Tyrion to murder Joffrey and helped him escape by bribing the guards.

Several innocent dwarfs are killed by bounty hunters who mistake them for Tyrion. Among them are: a pious dwarf that Brienne meets at the Riverlands; a Tyroshi juggler; Oppo (aka Groat), one of the two dwarfs who perfomed at Joffrey's wedding.

In A Dance with Dragons, it is finally revealed that Tyrion has successfully fled Westeros with help from Varys, who stays in King's Landing but arranges for Illyrio Mopatis to shelter him in Pentos. While in Illyrio's mansion, Tyrion is persuaded by Illyrio to travel to Meereen with some companions to aid Daenerys Targaryen in reclaiming the Iron Throne, and in the process to take his revenge on both Cersei and Jaime (though he expresses a desire to rape and kill Cersei, he begins to have second thoughts about Jaime near the end of the book). Soon he joins Illyrio's friends - a sellsword named Griff, his son and their servants (all of whom have not appeared yet in the TV show, perhaps totally omitted). During the journey, they pass Volantis and are attacked by Stone Men. Tyrion briefly falls into the water but is rescued by Griff, who is infected with greyscale in the process.

While in a brothel (not in Volantis itself, but one of its outlying towns), Tyrion is captured by Jorah Mormont, who intends to take him to Daenerys. They also meet Penny, one of the dwarfs who performed at Joffrey's wedding and whose brother Oppo has recently been killed by dwarf hunters seeking Tyrion; she initially blames Tyrion for Oppo's death and attempts to kill him, but eventually realizes it was not his fault. They board a ship whose destination is Qarth. One of the passengers is Moqorro, a Red Priest who was sent by the High Priest of Volantis, to offer Daenerys guidance and help. Moqorro tells Tyrion he has seen him in a vision as "a small man with a big shadow." Tyrion is flattered to hear that, but is also skeptical.

Tyrion and Penny are made to perform in Daznak's Pit, during which Tyrion sees Daenerys from afar and very nearly calls out to her, but stops himself after noticing Barristan Selmy beside her, who may prejudice her against him due to their shared hatred for the Lannisters. The slave masters intend to unleash a pack of lions into the pit, but Daenerys puts a stop to the act, unknowingly saving Tyrion's life.

The "bloody flux" plague decimates the siege; Yezzan is among its victims. Tyrion seizes the opportunity to escape with Jorah and Penny to the camp of the Second Sons, who have recently betrayed Daenerys to side with the armies of Yunkai. Tyrion and Jorah join the sellsword company, intending to persuade them to change their allegiance back to Daenerys in exchange for the wealth of Casterly Rock, his birthright since Jaime has renounced it. Meanwhile, back in King's Landing, Varys shoots Kevan Lannister with a crossbow to fool Cersei into thinking Tyrion is still in the capital.

As much as Tyrion loathed Joffrey, he wouldn't harm him due to the taboo of kinslaying. After he is told the truth about Tysha, it seems Tyrion does no longer care about that taboo: he kills his father, and in the fifth novel he brags about killing his father and nephew, and also states he intends to kill his siblings.






